ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2024, and our 2024 Form 10-K. Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the words "believes," "intends," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "plans," "projects," "contemplates," "intends," "budgets," "predicts," "estimates," "anticipates," or similar expressions. These statements are based on our beliefs, as well as assumptions we have used based upon information currently available to us. Because these statements reflect our current views concerning future events, these statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our 2024 Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. A reader, whether investing in our common stock or not, should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise indicates, "PetMed Express," "PetMeds," "PetMed," "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refers to PetMed Express, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Executive Summary PetMed Express, Inc. and subsidiaries, d/b/a PetMeds, is a leading nationwide direct-to-consumer pet pharmacy and online provider of prescription and non-prescription medications, foods, supplements, supplies and vet services for dogs, cats and horses. PetMeds markets and sells directly to consumers through its websites, toll-free numbers, and mobile application. We offer consumers an attractive alternative for obtaining pet medications, foods, and supplies in terms of convenience, price, speed of delivery, and valued customer service. Founded in 1996, our executive headquarters offices are currently located at 420 South Congress Avenue, Delray Beach, Florida 33445, and our telephone number is (561) 526-4444. We have a March 31 fiscal year end. Presently, our product line includes approximately 15,000 of the most popular pet medications, health products, food and supplies for dogs, cats, and horses. We market our products through national advertising campaigns which aim to increase the recognition of the PetMeds brand name, and "PetCareRx" brand name, increase traffic on our websites at www.petmeds.com and www.petcarerx.com, acquire new customers, and maximize repeat purchases. Our sales consist of products sold mainly to retail consumers. The average purchase was approximately $97 for the quarters ended June 30, 2024, and June 30, 2023. Restatement As described in the Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our consolidated financial statements and Item 2. Managements Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and the results of our operations contained herein are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements and the data used to prepare them. Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. On an ongoing basis we re-evaluate our judgments and estimates including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and our beliefs of what could occur in the future considering available information. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our estimates are guided by observing the following critical accounting policies. 19 Revenue recognition We account for revenue under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 606 ("Revenue from Contracts with Customers"). The Company generates revenue by selling prescription and non-prescription pet medication products, pet food, supplements, supplies, membership fees, and veterinary services. Certain pet supplies offered on our websites are drop shipped to customers. We consider ourself the principal in the arrangement because we control the specified good before it is transferred to the customer. Revenue contracts contain one performance obligation, which is delivery of the product; customer care and support is deemed not to be a material right to the contract. The transaction price is adjusted at the date of sale for any applicable sales discounts and an estimate of product returns, which are estimated based on historical patterns, however this is not considered a key judgment. There are no amounts excluded from the variable consideration. Revenue is recognized when control transfers to the customer at the point in time in which the shipment of the product occurs. This key judgment is determined as the shipping point, which represents the point in time where we have a present right to payment, title has transferred to the customer, and the customer has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. Outbound shipping and handling fees are an accounting policy election and are included in sales as we consider ourself the principal in the arrangement given responsibility for supplier selection and discretion over pricing. Shipping costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are an accounting policy election and are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. Virtually all of our sales are paid by credit cards and we usually receive the cash settlement in two to three banking days. Credit card sales minimize the accounts receivable balances relative to sales. Membership fees represent the amounts recognized periodically from the PetPlus memberships provided through PetCareRx. In addition to annual membership fees earned under the PetPlus program, we also earns membership fees on a month-to-month basis as earned under our monthly partner program. Memberships provide wholesale pricing, free standard shipping, veterinary telehealth services and local Caremark Pharmacy prescription pickup. The PetPlus membership fee is an annual charge and automatically renews one year from the initial enrollment date. We recognize the revenue ratably over the term of the membership which is generally one year. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for losses that we estimate will arise from customers inability to make required payments, arising from either credit card chargebacks or insufficient funds checks. We determine our estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivable by analyzing historical and current bad debts and economic trends in compliance with the provisions of ASC Topic 326 ("Financial Instruments - Credit Losses"). The allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $109 thousand at June 30, 2024, compared to $273 thousand at March 31, 2024. Business Combinations We account for our business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805 ("Business Combinations"). The purchase price is allocated to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired or assumed are measured separately at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree is recorded as goodwill. The results of businesses acquired in a business combination are included in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management to use significant judgment and estimates, including the selection of valuation methodologies, estimates of future revenue and cash flows, discount rates and selection of comparable companies. The estimates and assumptions used to determine the fair values and useful lives of identified intangible assets could change due to numerous factors, including market conditions, technological developments, economic conditions, and competition. In connection with the determination of fair values, we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to assist with the valuation of intangible and certain tangible assets acquired and certain obligations assumed. Acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by us are not included as a component of consideration transferred but are accounted for as an operating expense in the period in which the costs are incurred. Use of Estimates The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the attached unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the 20 reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Acquisition On April 3, 2023, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of PetCareRx, Inc. (PetCareRx), a New York corporation and a leading supplier of pet food, pet medications, and supplies. The acquisition was completed pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger ("Merger Agreement") by and among us, Harry Merger Sub, Inc., a New York corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), PetCareRx and Jeanette Loeb (as representative of the PetCareRx equity holders). The Merger Agreement provided for our acquisition of PetCareRx pursuant to the merger of Merger Sub with and into PetCareRx, with PetCareRx as the surviving corporation. The aggregate purchase price consideration was $36.1 million and was funded from our cash on hand. The fair values of intangible assets acquired consist of a trade name, customer relationships, and developed technology, which were estimated by applying various discounted cash flow models such as the relief from royalty rate for the trade name, the multi-period excess earnings method for the customer relationships, and the cost to replace method for the developed technology. The fair value measurements were based on significant inputs that are not observable (Level 3). The assumptions made by management in determining the fair value of intangible assets included a discount rate of 12% based on the weighted average cost of capital. Income taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740 (Accounting for Income Taxes), which generally requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax benefits or consequences of events that have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting carrying values and the tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured by applying enacted tax rates and laws for the taxable years in which those differences are expected to reverse. As a result of the acquisition, we performed an Internal Revenue Code Section 382 analysis to determine if the net operating losses carried forward will have a utilization limitation. Any limitation may result in the expiration of a portion of the federal net operating loss carryforward before utilization, which would reduce our gross deferred tax assets. As of April 3, 2023, and prior to the acquisition, PetCareRx had approximately $96.0 million of net operating losses and $1.9 million of disallowed interest expense. The results of the Section 382 analysis determined the net operating loss and disallowed interest expense in total, would be limited and reduced to $14.5 million. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates, significant capital market and supply chain volatility, and global economic and geopolitical developments, have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are difficult to isolate and quantify. In addition, rising fuel, utility, and food costs, rising interest rates, and recessionary fears may impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our revenue growth rates. We expect some or all of these factors to continue to impact our operations for the remainder of fiscal 2025. 21 Results of Operations The following should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. The following table sets forth, as a percentage of sales, certain operating data appearing in our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss): Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 73.6 71.2 Gross profit 26.4 28.8 Operating expenses: General and administrative 7.2 20.1 Advertising 10.3 9.3 Depreciation and amortization 2.5 2.1 Total operating expenses 20.0 31.5 Income (loss) from operations 6.4 (2.7) Total other income 0.5 0.9 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 6.9 (1.8) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1.4 (0.4) Net income (loss) 5.5 % (1.4) % Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors and the market with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed (see below) adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income excluding share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, income tax provision, interest income (expense), and other non-operational expenses. We have provided reconciliations below of net income to adjusted EBITDA, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We have included adjusted EBITDA herein because it is a key measure used by our management and Board of Directors to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparability across reporting periods by removing the effect of non-cash expenses and other expenses. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. We believe it is useful to exclude non-cash charges, such as net share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization from our adjusted EBITDA because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations. We believe it is useful to exclude income tax provision and interest income (expense), as neither are components of our core business operations. We also believe that it is useful to exclude other non-operational expenses, including acquisition costs related to PetCareRx, employee severance and 22 estimated state sales tax accrual as these items are not indicative of our ongoing operations. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect net share-based compensation. Share-based compensation has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a material recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest income (expense), net; or changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect transaction related costs and other items which are either not representative of our underlying operations or are incremental costs that result from an actual or planned transaction and include litigation matters, integration consulting fees, internal salaries and wages (to the extent the individuals are assigned full-time to integration and transformation activities) and certain costs related to integrating and converging IT systems; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain non-operating expenses including the employee severance which reduces cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain non operating expenses (income) including sales tax expense (income) relating to recording a liability for sales tax we did not collect from our customers. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces the measures usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, adjusted EBITDA should only be considered as supplemental to, and alongside with other GAAP based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income, net margin, and our other GAAP results. The following tables present a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Increase (Decrease) ($ in thousands, except percentages) June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 $ % Consolidated Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income ( loss) $ 3,754 $ (1,136) $ 4,890 (430) % Add (subtract): Share-based Compensation (1) (8,204) 1,760 (9,964) (566) % Income Taxes 958 (292) 1,250 n/m Depreciation and Amortization 1,721 1,678 43 3 % Interest Income, Net (2) (95) (194) 99 (51) % Acquisition/Partnership Transactions and Other Items 180 1,126 (946) (84) % Employee Severance 149 393 (244) (62) % Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,537) $ 3,335 $ (4,872) (146) % 23 (1) In April 2024, the Company and its former CEO entered into a Transition and Separation Agreement pursuant to which the Company cancelled the 510,000 restricted shares with a market condition and accelerated vesting on the 30,000 remaining unvested time-restricted shares which otherwise would not have vested. Cancellation and acceleration of these shares resulted in an $8.7 million reduction of compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2024. (2) Included in interest income, net is $410 thousand of interest expense related to the sales tax liability and $505 thousand of interest income for the three months ended June 30, 2024. This compares to $426 thousand of interest expense related to the sales tax liability and $620 thousand of interest income for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Compared With Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 Sales Sales decreased by approximately $10.3 million, or 13.2%, to approximately $68.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, compared to approximately $78.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 reflects both broader macroeconomic factors, higher consumer promotional usage and specific internal challenges. Reorder sales decreased by approximately $8.0 million, or 11.8%, to approximately $60.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, compared to approximately $68.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in reorder sales is primarily due to a decline in prescription medication sales. New order sales decreased by approximately $2.2 million or 28.4%, to approximately $5.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, compared to $7.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in new order sales is primarily due to the combination of lower gross media spend resulting in a decrease in new customers acquired. We acquired approximately 75,000 new customers for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 compared to approximately 86,000 new customers for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The following tables illustrates sales by various sales classifications: Three Months Ended June 30, Increase (Decrease) Revenue (In thousands) 2024 % 2023 % $ % Reorder sales $ 60,025 88.3 % $ 68,038 87.0 % $ (8,013) (11.8) % New order sales 5,603 8.2 % 7,820 10.0 % (2,217) (28.4) % Membership fees 2,324 3.4 % 2,386 3.0 % (62) (2.6) % Total net sales $ 67,952 100.0 % $ 78,244 100.0 % $ (10,292) (13.2) % AutoShip & Save subscription sales as a percentage of total sales was 52.5% of net sales for the most recent quarter ended June 30, 2024, up from 48.7% of net sales for the same period last year and down from 53.5% of net sales sequentially in the prior quarter. Going forward, sales may be adversely affected due to increased competition and consumers giving more consideration to price. The changes in consumer behavior due to macroeconomic factors makes future sales somewhat challenging to predict. No guarantees can be made that sales will grow in the future. Cost of sales Cost of sales decreased by approximately $5.7 million, or 10.3%, to approximately $50.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, from approximately $55.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, was 73.6% for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, compared to 71.2% for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, increased for the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023 primarily due to an increase in discount activity in the most recent period. 24 Gross profit Gross profit decreased by approximately $4.6 million, or 20.2%, to approximately $18.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, from approximately $22.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The gross profit decreases for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2023 were primarily due to lower sales and a lower gross margin over the same period due to an increase in discount activity in the most recent quarter. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $10.8 million, or 69.0%, to approximately $4.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, from approximately $15.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The decrease to general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to a $10.0 million decrease in stock compensation expense, of which $8.7 million was from the stock compensation reversal associated with an executive departure, a $0.2 million decrease in payroll expenses of which $0.2 million was due to higher severance in the previous year, $0.2 million lower professional fees of which $0.9 million was from higher acquisition/ partnership transaction on other items in the previous year, and a $0.5 million decrease of variable and other overhead expenses. Advertising expenses Advertising expenses decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 3.8%, to approximately $7.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, from approximately $7.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The decrease for the quarter can be mainly attributed to lower gross media spend partially offset by lower marketing funded by manufacturers. The advertising costs of acquiring a new customer, defined as total advertising costs divided by new customers acquired, was $93 for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 compared to $84 for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The increase to customer acquisition costs for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, was due to a less efficient variable marketing spend. The advertising cost of acquiring a new customer can be impacted by the advertising environment, the effectiveness of our advertising creative, spending, and price competition. Historically, the advertising environment fluctuates due to supply and demand. A more favorable advertising environment may positively impact future sales, whereas a less favorable advertising environment may negatively impact future sales. As a percentage of sales, advertising expense was 10.3% and 9.3% for the quarters ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The advertising percentage may fluctuate quarter to quarter due to seasonality and advertising availability. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense was $1.7 million and $1.7 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023, respectively. Other income (As Restated) Other income decreased to approximately $0.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 compared to approximately $0.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. The decrease to other income for the quarter was due to slightly lower invested balances, and a one time payment received in prior year. Interest income may decrease in the future based on several factors, including utilization of our cash balances on future investments or partnerships, or on our operating activities. Additionally, interest income could increase or decrease if the current interest rate environment changes. Provision for income taxes (As Restated) For the quarters ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company recorded an income tax provision of approximately $1.0 million and a tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million, respectively. The increase in the tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2024 is related to the cancellation of the former CEOs performance stock units resulting in additional $8.7 million of income during the quarter.The effective tax rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2024 was approximately 20.3%, compared to approximately 20.4% for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital at June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2024 was $19.3 million and $21.5 million, respectively. The $2.2 million decrease in working capital was attributable to the $13.8 million decrease in current liabilities, primarily accounts payable, offset by the $16.0 million decrease in current assets, primarily cash and inventory. Net cash used in operating activities was $8.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The $9.1 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities is 25 due to the $4.9 million increase in net income reduced by $9.2 million of non-cash operating adjustments and offset by the $4.8 million increase in current liabilities net of current assets excluding cash. Net cash used in investing activities was $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, compared to $37.0 million used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The change in net cash used in investing activities is primarily related to the PetCareRx acquisition and an additional investment in Vetster in the prior year. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.1 million and $6.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and the three months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, due to the payment of an aggregate $0.00 per share dividend for the three months ended June 30, 2024, and an aggregate $0.30 per share dividend for the three months ended June 30, 2023. On October 26, 2023, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the quarterly dividend indefinitely. This move is intended to focus use of the Companys existing cash flow on growth initiatives and other, higher return initiatives. The board reviews and discusses the capital allocation needs of the Company on a quarterly basis and as part of that review, has determined to suspend the dividend indefinitely.The declaration and payment of future dividends is discretionary and will be subject to a determination by the Board of Directors. As of June 30, 2024, we had $1.3 million in outstanding lease commitments assumed in the PetCarerRx acquisition for the leases on two buildings. Other than the foregoing leases, we are not currently bound by any material long-term or short-term commitments for the purchase or lease of capital expenditures. Any material amounts expended for capital expenditures would be the result of an increase in the capacity needed to adequately provide for any future increase in our business. To date we have paid for any needed additions to our capital equipment infrastructure from working capital funds and anticipate this being the case in the future. Our primary source of working capital is cash from operations. We presently have no alternative sources of working capital and have no commitments.