Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regulatory Risks We may inadvertently fail to comply with various state or federal regulations covering the dispensing of prescription pet medications which may subject us to reprimands, sanctions, probations, fines, suspensions, or the loss of one or more of our pharmacy licenses . The sale and delivery of prescription pet medications is generally governed by state laws and state regulations, and with respect to controlled substances, also by federal law. Since our pharmacy is located in the State of Florida, the Company is governed by the laws and regulations of the State of Florida. Each prescription pet medication sale we make is likely also to be covered by the laws of the state where the customer is located. The laws and regulations relating to the sale and delivery of prescription pet medications vary from state to state, but generally require that prescription pet medications be dispensed with the authorization from a prescribing veterinarian. Our current license is valid until February 28, 2023, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to renew it. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our license as a community pharmacy with the Florida Board of Pharmacy, or if we do not maintain the licenses granted by other state boards, or if we become subject to actions by the FDA, or other enforcement regulators, our dispensing of prescription medications to pet owners could cease, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Company is a party to routine litigation and administrative complaints incidental to its business. Management does not believe that the resolution of any or all of such routine litigation and administrative complaints is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. While we make every effort to fully comply with all applicable state rules, laws, and regulations, from time to time we have been the subject of administrative complaints regarding the authorization of prescriptions prior to shipment. We cannot assure you that we will not be the subject of administrative complaints in the future. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to reprimands, sanctions, probations, or fines, or that one or more of our pharmacy licenses will not be suspended or revoked. If we were unable to maintain our license as a community pharmacy in the State of Florida, or if we are not granted licensure in a state that begins to require licensure, or if one or more of the licenses granted by other state boards should be suspended or revoked, our ability to continue to sell prescription medications and to continue our business as it is presently conducted could be in jeopardy. Business Risks Our failure to properly manage our inventory may result in excessive inventory carrying costs, or inadequate supply of products, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our current product line contains approximately 3,000 SKUs. A significant portion of our sales is attributable to products representing approximately 100 SKUs, including the most popular flea and tick, and heartworm preventative brands. We need to properly manage our inventory to provide an adequate supply of these products and avoid excessive inventory of the products representing the balance of the SKUs. We generally place orders for products with our suppliers based upon our internal estimates of the amounts of inventory we will need to fill future orders. These estimates may be significantly different from the actual orders we receive. In the event that subsequent orders fall short of original estimates, we may be left with excess inventory. Significant excess inventory could result in price discounts, increased inventory carrying costs, and obsolescence. Similarly, if we fail to have an adequate supply of some SKUs, we may lose sales opportunities. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain appropriate inventory levels. Any failure on our part to maintain appropriate inventory levels may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Resistance from veterinarians to authorize prescriptions, or attempts/efforts on their part to discourage pet owners from purchasing from us could cause our sales to decrease and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since we began our operations, some veterinarians have resisted providing our customers with a copy of their pets prescription or authorizing the prescription to our pharmacy staff, thereby effectively preventing us from filling such prescriptions under state law. We have also been informed by customers and consumers that veterinarians have tried to discourage pet owners from purchasing from internet mail-order pharmacies. Although veterinarians in some states are required by law to provide a pet owner with a prescription if medically appropriate, if the number of veterinarians who refuse to authorize prescriptions should increase, or if veterinarians are successful in discouraging pet owners from purchasing from internet mail-order pharmacies, our sales could decrease, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Significant portions of our sales are made to residents of eight states. If we should lose our pharmacy license in one or more of these states, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. While we ship pet medications to customers in all 50 states, approximately 50% of our sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, were made to customers located in the states of California, Florida, Texas, New York, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Georgia, and Virginia. If for any reason our license to operate a pharmacy in one or more of those states should be suspended or revoked, or if it is not renewed, our ability to sell prescription medications to residents of those states would cease and our financial condition and results of operations in future periods would be materially adversely affected. We now have direct buying relationships with all the major pet medication manufacturers; the contractual relationship depends on our compliance with their minimum advertised pricing policies (MAPP). During fiscal 2020, the Company established direct purchasing relationships with all the major pet medication manufacturers. These relationships entitle the Company to buy directly from the manufacturer under the terms and conditions of a purchasing agreement which dictates purchase pricing of inventory and criteria to obtain additional discounts and rebates. The terms of these agreements also require the Company to comply with the manufacturers MAPP. Each advertisement and/or promotion of a product below the MAPP price, should they occur, would be a violation of the policy. This policy applies to all advertisements of products in all media including, without limitation, flyers, posters, coupons, mailers, inserts, newspapers, magazines, on-line catalogs, mail order catalogs, public signage and all Internet or similar electronic media, television, radio and public signage, including websites, email newsletters, forums, and auction sites. At the discretion of the manufacturers, non-compliance with the MAPP can result in one or more of the following actions: (1) forfeiture of future rebates or discounts from the manufacturer, (2) suspension of future purchases from the manufacturer, (3) or termination of current or future business relationship. The Company has and will continue to make every attempt to abide by the manufacturers MAPP. However, no assurances can be made that the Company will not violate MAPP inadvertently. A reduction or discontinuance of these rebates or discounts would increase our costs and could reduce our profitability. If any of these major pet medication manufacturers were to terminate our purchasing relationship it could materially adversely affect our business. If the manufacturers are not able to enforce their MAPP industry-wide, then our profit margins and results of operations may also be impacted negatively. The loss of any of our key suppliers would negatively impact our business. We have direct purchasing relationships with all of the major pet medication manufacturers, the majority of which we purchase significant quantities of pet medication products, with the majority from these major manufacturers. We do maintain annual purchasing contracts with these major manufacturers. While we believe that our supplier relationships are good, a supplier could discontinue selling to us at any time. The loss of any of our key suppliers of pet medications offered by us would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 8 Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in, or disruptions to, our shipping arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently rely on third-party national, regional, and local logistics providers to deliver the products we offer on our website. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable pricing and other terms with these providers, or if these providers experience performance problems or other difficulties in processing our orders or delivering our products to customers, it could negatively impact our results of operations and our customers experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship merchandise to customers may be negatively affected by factors beyond our and these providers control, including inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism or other events, such as labor shortages and disputes, financial difficulties, volatility in the prices of fuel, gasoline and commodities such as paper and packing supplies, system failures and other disruptions to the operations of the shipping companies on which we rely. We are also subject to risks of damage or loss during delivery by our shipping vendors. Further, due to the continuing spread of COVID-19 and its variant strains and related work and travel restrictions, there may be disruptions and delays in national, regional and local shipping, which may negatively impact our customers experience and our operations and financial results. The spread of COVID-19, and any future similar outbreak, may disrupt our suppliers and logistics providers and other third- party delivery agents, as their workers may be prohibited or otherwise unable to report to work and transporting products within regions may be limited due to factory closures, port closures and increased border controls and closures, among other things. If the products ordered by our customers are not delivered in a timely fashion or are damaged or lost during the delivery process, our customers could become dissatisfied and cease buying products through our website and mobile applications, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The content of our website could expose us to various kinds of liability, which, if prosecuted successfully, could negatively impact our business. Because we post product and pet health information and other content on our website, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright infringement, patent infringement, trademark infringement, defamation, and/or other claims based on the nature and content of the materials we post. Various claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully prosecuted, against Internet content distributors. We could be exposed to liability with respect to the unauthorized duplication of content or unauthorized use of other parties proprietary technology. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, and/or we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, copyright laws, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our non-prescription private label or generic equivalents, when and if developed, as well as aspects of our sales formats, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, including the technology used to operate our website and our content, and our trademarks. Litigation or proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office or other bodies may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or adverse proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could seriously harm our business and operating results. Third parties may also claim infringement by us with respect to past, current, or future technologies. We expect that participants in our market will be increasingly involved in infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to protect our Internet addresses or to prevent others from using Internet addresses that are confusingly similar, our business may be adversely impacted. Our Internet addresses, www.1800petmeds.com , www.1888petmeds.com , www.petmedexpress.com , www.petmed.com , www.petmeds.com , www.petmeds.pharmacy , www.petmed.pharmacy , and www.1800petmeds. pharmacy , are critical to our brand recognition and our overall success. If we are unable to protect these Internet addresses, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition. There may be similar Internet addresses used by competitors. Governmental agencies and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of Internet addresses. The regulation of Internet addresses in the United States and in foreign countries has changed and may undergo further change in the near future. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing Internet addresses and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to protect our own Internet addresses or prevent third parties from acquiring Internet addresses that are confusingly similar to, infringe upon, or otherwise decrease the value of our Internet addresses. 9 Since all of our operations are housed in a single location, we are more susceptible to a business interruption in the event of damage to, or disruptions in, our facility . Our headquarters and distribution center are currently located in one location in South Florida, and most of our shipments of products to our customers are made from this sole distribution center. Because we consolidate our operations in one location, we are more susceptible to power and equipment failures, and business interruptions in the event of fires, floods, and other natural disasters than if we had additional locations. Furthermore, because we are located in South Florida, which is a hurricane-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our headquarters and distribution center and surrounding transportation infrastructure caused by a hurricane. We cannot assure you that we are adequately insured to cover the amount of any losses relating to any of these potential events, including business interruptions resulting from damage to or destruction of our headquarters and distribution center, or power and equipment failures relating to our call center or websites, or interruptions or disruptions to major transportation infrastructure, or other events that do not occur on our premises. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues in future periods. A failure of our information systems and customer-facing technology systems or any security breach or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, or other cyber-attacks on our systems, could result in litigation and regulatory risk, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is dependent upon the efficient operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage our business model strategy, with tools to track and manage sales, inventory, marketing, customer service efforts, the preparation of our consolidated financial and operating data, credit card information, and customer information. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or the failure to maintain and enhance or protect the integrity of these systems could disrupt our business operations, adversely impact sales and the results of operations, expose us to customer or third-party claims, or result in adverse publicity. Through our information technology, we are able to provide an improved overall shopping and interconnected retail experience that empowers our customers to shop and interact with us from computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices. We use our website and our mobile application both as sales channels for our products and also as methods of providing product and other relevant information to our customers to drive online sales. Our online programs, communities and knowledge center allow us to inform, assist and interact with our customers. We also continually seek to enhance all of our online properties to provide an attractive user-friendly interface for our customers. Disruptions, failures or other performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems could impair the benefits that they provide to our online business and negatively affect our relationship with our customers. Additionally, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in the normal course of our business. Despite the security measures we have in place and any additional measures we may implement in the future, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism, or other events. Any security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business, or otherwise affect our results of operations. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, and a portion of our sales are seasonal. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: Our ability to obtain new customers at a reasonable cost, retain existing customers, or encourage reorders; Our ability to increase the number of visitors to our website, or our ability to convert visitors to our website into customers; The mix of medications and other pet products sold by us; Our ability to manage inventory levels or obtain an adequate supply of products; Our ability to adequately maintain, upgrade, and develop our website, the systems that we use to process customers orders and payments, or our computer network; Increased competition within our market niche; 10 Price competition; New products introduced to the market, including generics; Increases in the cost of advertising; The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our product line or operations; Disruption of our toll-free telephone service, technical difficulties, or systems and Internet outages or slowdowns; The impact of COVID-19 on our business operations and generally on the economy, including the measures taken by governmental authorities to address it; and Unfavorable general economic trends. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. The majority of our product sales are affected by the seasons, due to the seasonality of mainly flea, tick, and heartworm medications. For the quarters ended June 30, 2021, September 30, 2021, December 31, 2021, and March 31, 2022, Company sales were 29%, 25%, 22%, and 24%, respectively. In addition to the seasonality of our sales, our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, including weather, many of which are out of our control. Any change in one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Uncertainties in economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in certain macro-economic conditions that impact consumer spending on pet products and services. Some of the factors that may affect consumer spending on pet products and services include consumer confidence, levels of unemployment, inflation, interest rates, tax rates and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. We may experience declines in sales or changes in the types of products sold during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of consumer spending or other adverse economic changes could reduce our sales, and a decrease in the sales of higher-margin products could reduce profitability and, in each case, harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of, or investments in, new or complementary businesses, facilities, technologies, offerings, or products, or through strategic alliances, and the failure to manage these acquisitions, investments, or other strategic alliances, or to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us. We recently entered into, and made an investment in, a strategic alliance, and we may in the future consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in new or complementary businesses, facilities, technologies, offerings, or products, or enter into other strategic alliances, which may enhance our capabilities, complement our current products and services or expand the breadth of our markets. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic alliances involve numerous risks, including: problems integrating the acquired business, facilities, technologies or products, including issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; losses we may incur as a result of declines in the value of an investment or as a result of incorporating an investees financial performance into our financial results; diversion of managements attention from our existing business; risks associated with entering new markets in which we may have limited or no experience; the risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may differ from or be more significant than the risks our other businesses face; potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest; and increased legal and accounting compliance costs. Our ability to successfully grow through strategic transactions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses, facilities, technologies, products and services. These efforts could be expensive and time-consuming and may disrupt our ongoing business and prevent management from focusing on our operations. As a result of future strategic transactions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (which may only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all) or contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisitions, investments or strategic relationships, or if we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, facilities, technologies, offerings and products effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Also, while we employ several different methodologies to assess potential business opportunities, the new businesses or investments may not meet or exceed our expectations or desired objectives. 11 Financial Risks We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit and debit cards, PayPal, and checks, and we may offer new payment options over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change over time or be reinterpreted, making compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Industry Risks We face significant competition from veterinarians and online and traditional retailers and may not be able to compete profitably with them. We compete directly and indirectly with veterinarians for the sale of pet medications and other health products. Veterinarians hold a competitive advantage over us because many pet owners may find it more convenient or preferable to purchase these products directly from their veterinarians at the time of an office visit. We also compete directly and indirectly with both online and traditional retailers. Both online and traditional retailers may hold a competitive advantage over us because of longer operating histories, established brand names, greater resources, and/or an established customer base. Online retailers may have a competitive advantage over us because of established affiliate relationships to drive traffic to their website. Traditional retailers may hold a competitive advantage over us because pet owners may prefer to purchase these products from a store instead of online. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers, some of whom may have a lower cost structure than ours, as customers now routinely use computers, tablets, smartphones, and other mobile devices and mobile applications to shop online and compare prices and products in real time. In order to effectively compete in the future, we may be required to offer promotions and other incentives, which may result in lower operating margins and adversely affect the results of operations. We also face a significant challenge from our competitors forming alliances with each other, such as those between online and traditional retailers. These relationships may enable both their online and retail stores to negotiate better pricing and better terms from suppliers by aggregating the demand for products and negotiating volume discounts, which could be a competitive disadvantage to us. Risks Related to COVID-19 The COVID-19 global pandemic and related government, private sector and individual consumer responsive actions may adversely affect our business operations, employee availability, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow for an unknown period of time. 12 The outbreak of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization and continues to spread in the United States, Canada, and in many other countries globally. COVID-19 has had, and continues to have, a significant impact in the United States and around the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and quarantine and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has at times significantly curtailed economic activity in the United States and globally, and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. The continued adverse public health developments, the related government and private sector responsive actions, and the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely affect our business operations. It is impossible to predict the effect and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as the situation is continually evolving. The COVID-19 pandemic may disrupt the global supply chain and may cause disruptions to our operations if a significant number of employees are quarantined or if they are otherwise limited in their ability to work at our fulfillment center. Additional federal or state mandates could also impact our ability to take or fulfill our customers orders and operate our business. As an essential business, we have been open during our normal business hours without any material disruptions to our operations. We are dedicated to making every effort to ensure the health and safety of our employees. We have implemented working from home where possible and enhanced disinfection and social distancing within our workplace. Many of our personnel are working remotely and it is possible that this could have a negative impact on the execution of our business plans and operations. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurs that impacts our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in consumer privacy, IT security and fraud concerns as well as operational inefficiencies. The operations of our fulfillment center may be substantially disrupted by additional federal or state mandates ordering shutdowns or by the inability of our employees to travel to work due to COVID-19. The inability to ship from our fulfillment center due to a COVID-19 outbreak, disruptions to the operations of our fulfillment center, or increased costs in fulfillment center capacity may negatively impact our financial performance or slow our future growth. The uncertainty around the duration of business disruptions and the extent of the spread of the virus and the emergence of new variants of the virus in the United States and to other areas of the world will likely continue to adversely impact the national and global economy and negatively impact consumer spending. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to execute and capitalize on our strategies. The full extent of COVID-19s impact on our operations and financial performance depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, its impact on capital and financial markets and any new information that may emerge concerning the severity and new variants of the virus, its spread to other regions as well as the actions taken to contain it, among others. Securities Risks Our stock price fluctuates from time to time and may fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, and could subject us to litigation, which may result in you suffering a loss on your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. These factors include: quarterly variations in operating results; changes in accounting treatments or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of new products and services offerings; significant contracts, acquisitions, or strategic relationships; additions or departures of key personnel; any future sales of our common stock or other securities; stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly traded companies; and general political, economic, and market conditions. In some future quarter our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, or other market expectations, the price of the Companys common stock may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock that could defer a change of control or dilute the interests of our common shareholders . Our charter documents could defer a takeover effort which could inhibit your ability to receive an acquisition premium for your shares . Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue up to 5.0 million shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval. Currently there are 2,500 shares of our Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. This leaves slightly less than 5.0 million shares of preferred stock available for issuance at the discretion of our Board of Directors. These shares, if issued, could contain dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights which could adversely affect the rights of our common shareholders and which could also be utilized, under some circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if many of our shareholders believe it is in their best interest. 13 Our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders and the amounts of any such dividends are subject to the discretion of the Board and may be limited by our financial condition, or limitations under Florida law. We have paid dividends to our shareholders since 2009 and it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends and the amounts thereof will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under Florida law, and other factors the Board deems relevant. The Board has previously decided, and may in the future decide, in its sole discretion, to change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. For these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. Accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We own our facilities, including our principal executive offices and distribution center, which are located at 420 South Congress Avenue, Delray Beach, Florida 33445 (the Property). The Property consists of approximately 634,000 square feet of land or 14.6 acres with two building complexes totaling approximately 185,000 square feet, with additional land for future use. The first building complex consists of approximately 125,000 square feet and the second building complex consists of approximately 60,000 square feet each consisting of both office and warehouse space. The Company occupies approximately 97,000 square feet of the first building for its principal offices and distribution center. As of March 31, 2022, 48% of the Property was leased to two tenants with a remaining weighted average lease term of 3.0 years. We believe that our facilities are sufficient for our current needs and are in good condition in all material respects. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company has settled complaints that had been filed with various states pharmacy boards in the past. There can be no assurances made other states will not attempt to take similar actions against the Company in the future. The Company initiates litigation to protect its trade or service marks. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in protecting its trade or service marks. Legal costs related to the above matters are expensed as incurred. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 14 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Price Range of Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol PETS. The prices set forth below reflect the high and low sale prices per share in each of the quarters of fiscal 2022 and 2021 as reported by the NASDAQ. Fiscal 2022: High Low First Quarter $46.06 $27.73 Second Quarter $34.00 $26.50 Third Quarter $32.00 $25.26 Fourth Quarter $29.18 $23.62 Fiscal 2021: High Low First Quarter $40.96 $27.94 Second Quarter $41.83 $29.00 Third Quarter $33.77 $28.96 Fourth Quarter $51.80 $29.77 Holders There were 105 holders of record of our common stock on May 24, 2022, and approximately 48,300 of our holders are street name or beneficial holders, whose shares are held by banks, brokers, or other financial institutions. Dividends During fiscal 2021 and 2022, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Per Share Dividend Record Date Total Amount (In thousands) Payment Date May 4, 2020 $0.28 May 15, 2020 $5,647 May 22, 2020 July 20, 2020 $0.28 July 31, 2020 $5,647 August 7, 2020 October 26, 2020 $0.28 November 9, 2020 $5,676 November 20, 2020 January 19, 2021 $0.28 February 1, 2021 $5,676 February 12, 2021 May 3, 2021 $0.30 May 14, 2021 $6,081 May 21, 2021 July 26, 2021 $0.30 August 6, 2021 $6,102 August 13, 2021 October 25, 2021 $0.30 November 8, 2021 $6,283 November 19, 2021 January 24, 2022 $0.30 February 7, 2022 $6,294 February 18, 2022 On May 3, 2021, the Companys Board of Directors declared an increased quarterly dividend from $0.28 to $0.30 per share, on its common stock. The Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share on May 9, 2022. The Board established a May 20, 2022 record date and a May 27, 2022 payment date. The Company intends to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends; however, the declaration and payment of future dividends is discretionary and will be subject to a determination by the Board of Directors each quarter following its review of the Companys financial performance. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On November 8, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase plan of up to $20.0 million. On October 31, 2008, November 1, 2010, and August 1, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase under the share repurchase plan, each for an additional $20.0 million. The repurchase plan is intended to be implemented through purchases made from time to time in either the open market or through private transactions at the Company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors, in accordance with SEC requirements. 15 There can be no assurances as to the precise number of shares that will be repurchased under the share repurchase plan, and the Company may discontinue the share repurchase plan at any time subject to compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Shares purchased pursuant to the share repurchase plan will either be cancelled or held in the Company's treasury. On January 25, 2019, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $30.0 million under the repurchase plan. During fiscal 2020 the Company purchased and retired approximately 613,000 shares of its common stock for approximately $11.5 million, averaging approximately $18.73 per share. As of March 31, 2022, the Company had approximately $28.7 million remaining under the Companys share repurchase plan. Since the inception of the share repurchase plan up to March 31, 2022, approximately 6.2 million shares have been repurchased under the plan for approximately $81.3 million, averaging approximately $13.11 per share. Performance Graph Set forth below is a line graph comparing the five-year cumulative performance of our Common Stock with the Nasdaq Composite, the Russell 2000, and our SIC Code 5912 (pharmacy peer group) from March 31, 2017, to March 31, 2022. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on March 31, 2017, in each of our Common Stock, the Nasdaq Composite, the Russell 2000, and the SIC Code 5912 (pharmacy peer group). Because we have historically paid dividends on a quarterly basis, the graph assumes that dividends were reinvested. The performance graph and related information below shall not be deemed filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act or Exchange Act, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Performance graph data: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 PetMed Express, Inc. 100.00 211.75 119.69 159.37 201.60 155.76 Nasdaq Composite 100.00 120.76 133.60 134.52 233.26 252.05 SIC Code 5912 100.00 80.17 75.01 70.52 92.62 108.31 Russell 2000 100.00 111.79 114.09 86.72 168.96 159.19 16 Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The following table sets forth securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, including individual compensation arrangements, by us under our 2015 Outside Director Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan and 2016 Employee Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan as of March 31, 2022: EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION (In thousands) Number of securities Number of securities to be issued upon Weighted average remaining available exercise of outstanding exercise price of for future issuance options, warrants outstanding options, under equity Plan category and rights warrants and rights compensation plans 2015 Outside Director Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan 65 - 488 (1) 2016 Employee Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan 706 - 107 Total 771 595 (1) The number of shares of common stock available for issuance under the 2015 Outside Director Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan automatically increase on the first trading day of January each calendar year during the term of the 2015 Outside Director Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan, by an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of common stock authorized under the 2015 Outside Director Equity Compensation Restricted Stock Plan. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 17 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary PetMed Express (the Company) was incorporated in the state of Florida in January 1996, and since 2004 its common stock has traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PETS. The Company began selling pet medications and other pet health products in September 1996, and in March 2010, the Company started offering additional pet supplies on its website for sale, and these items are drop shipped to customers by third party vendors. Presently, the Companys product line includes approximately 3,000 of the most popular pet medications, health products, and supplies for dogs, cats, and horses. The Company markets its products through national advertising campaigns which aim to increase the recognition of the PetMeds brand name, increase traffic on its website at www.petmeds.com , acquire new customers, and maximize repeat purchases. Approximately 84% of all sales were generated via the Internet in both fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. The twelve-month average purchase was approximately $93 per order for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, compared to $89 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and the results of our operations contained herein are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements and the data used to prepare them. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. On an ongoing basis we re-evaluate our judgments and estimates including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and our beliefs of what could occur in the future considering available information. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our estimates are guided by observing the following critical accounting policies. Revenue recognition The Company generates revenue by selling pet medication products and pet supplies mainly to retail customers. Certain pet supplies offered on the Companys website are drop shipped to customers. The Company considers itself the principal in the arrangement because the Company controls the specified good before it is transferred to the customer. Revenue contracts contain one performance obligation, which is delivery of the product; customer care and support is deemed not to be a material right to the contract. The transaction price is adjusted at the date of sale for any applicable sales discounts and an estimate of product returns, which are estimated based on historical patterns; however, this is not considered a key judgment. There are no amounts excluded from variable consideration. Revenue is recognized when control transfers to the customer at the point in time in which the shipment of the product occurs. Outbound shipping and handling fees are an accounting policy election and are included in sales as the Company considers itself the principal in the arrangement given responsibility for supplier selection and discretion over pricing. Shipping costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are an accounting policy election and are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. The Company disaggregates revenue in the following two categories: (1) reorder sales vs new order sales, and (2) internet sales vs contact center sales. The following table illustrates sales by various classifications: Year Ended March 31, Sales (In thousands) 2022 % 2021 % $ Variance % Variance Reorder Sales $ 250,401 91.6 % $ 272,648 88.2 % $ (22,247 ) -8.2 % New Order Sales $ 23,016 8.4 % $ 36,567 11.8 % $ (13,551 ) -37.1 % Total Net Sales $ 273,417 100.0 % $ 309,215 100.0 % $ (35,798 ) -11.6 % Internet Sales $ 230,263 84.2 % $ 259,404 83.9 % $ (29,141 ) -11.2 % Contact Center Sales $ 43,154 15.8 % $ 49,811 16.1 % $ (6,657 ) -13.4 % Total Net Sales $ 273,417 100.0 % $ 309,215 100.0 % $ (35,798 ) -11.6 % 18 Year Ended March 31, Sales (In thousands) 2021 % 2020 % $ Variance % Variance Reorder Sales $ 272,648 88.2 % $ 248,560 87.5 % $ 24,088 9.7 % New Order Sales $ 36,567 11.8 % $ 35,565 12.5 % $ 1,002 2.8 % Total Net Sales $ 309,215 100.0 % $ 284,125 100.0 % $ 25,090 8.8 % Internet Sales $ 259,404 83.9 % $ 238,054 83.8 % $ 21,350 9.0 % Contact Center Sales $ 49,811 16.1 % $ 46,071 16.2 % $ 3,740 8.1 % Total Net Sales $ 309,215 100.0 % $ 284,125 100.0 % $ 25,090 8.8 % Virtually all of the Companys sales are paid by credit cards and the Company usually receives the cash settlement in two to three banking days. Credit card sales minimize accounts receivable balances relative to sales. The Company had no material contract asset or contract liability balances as of March 31, 2022, or March 31, 2021. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for losses that the Company estimates will arise from customers inability to make required payments, arising from either credit card chargebacks or insufficient funds checks. The Company determines its estimates of the un-collectability of accounts receivable by analyzing historical bad debts and current economic trends. The allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $39,000 at both March 31, 2021, and March 31, 2022. Valuation of inventory Inventories consist of prescription and non-prescription pet medications and pet supplies that are available for sale and are priced at the lower of cost or net realizable value using a weighted average cost method. The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence. The inventory reserve was approximately $81,000 and $86,000 at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Advertising The Company's advertising expense consists primarily of Internet marketing, direct mail/print, and television advertising. Internet costs are expensed in the month incurred and direct mail/print advertising costs are expensed when the related brochures and postcards are produced, distributed, or superseded. Television advertising costs are expensed as the advertisements are televised. Accounting for income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, ( Accounting for Income Taxes ) , which generally requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax benefits or consequences of events that have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting carrying values and the tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured by applying enacted tax rates and laws for the taxable years in which those differences are expected to reverse. 19 Results of Operations The following should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. The following table sets forth, as a percentage of sales, certain operating data appearing in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2022 2021 2020 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 71.4 70.9 71.4 Gross profit 28.6 29.1 28.6 Operating expenses: General and administrative 11.3 9.1 8.9 Advertising 6.9 7.0 8.0 Depreciation 1.0 0.8 0.8 Total operating expenses 19.2 16.9 17.7 Income from operations 9.4 12.2 10.9 Total other income 0.5 0.5 1.0 Income before provision for income taxes 9.9 12.7 11.9 Provision for income taxes 2.2 2.8 2.8 Net income 7.7 % 9.9 % 9.1 % Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per share To provide investors and the market with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed (see below) adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share, non-GAAP financial measures that we calculate as net income excluding; share-based compensation expense; depreciation and amortization; income tax provision; and interest income (expense). We have provided reconciliations below of adjusted EBITDA to net income and adjusted EBITDA per share to diluted earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We have included adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share, herein, because they are key measures used by our management and Board of Directors to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparability across reporting periods by removing the effect of non-cash expenses. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. 20 We believe it is useful to exclude non-cash charges, such as, share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization from our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations. In addition, we believe it is useful to exclude in our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share income tax provision and interest income (expense), as neither are components of our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share have limitations as financial measures, these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share do not reflect capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share do not reflect share-based compensation. Share-based compensation has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a material recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share do not reflect interest income (expense), net; or changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share differently, which reduces these measures usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share only as supplemental to, and alongside with other GAAP based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income, net margin, and our other GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA per share for each of the periods indicated: Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures PetMed Express, Inc. Three Months Ended Year Ended March 31, March 31, $ % March 31, March 31, $ % ($ in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 Change Change 2022 2021 Change Change Consolidated Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 6,066 $ 6,812 $ (746 ) -11 % $ 21,100 $ 30,603 $ (9,503 ) -31 % Add (subtract): Share-based compensation $ 1,509 $ 1,013 $ 496 49 % $ 4,549 $ 3,307 $ 1,242 38 % Income Taxes $ 1,368 $ 2,037 $ (669 ) -33 % $ 5,971 $ 8,613 $ (2,642 ) -31 % Depreciation $ 687 $ 636 $ 51 8 % $ 2,738 $ 2,427 $ 311 13 % Interest Income/Expense $ (92 ) $ (85 ) $ (7 ) 8 % $ (335 ) $ (314 ) $ (21 ) 7 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 9,538 $ 10,413 $ (875 ) -8 % $ 34,023 $ 44,636 $ (10,613 ) -24 % Three Months Ended Year Ended ($ in thousands, except percentages March 31, March 31, $ % March 31, March 31, $ % and per share amounts) 2022 2021 Change Change 2022 2021 Change Change Consolidated Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income Per Share to Adjusted EBITDA per share: Net income per share, diluted $ 0.30 $ 0.34 $ (0.04 ) -12 % $ 1.04 $ 1.52 $ (0.48 ) -32 % Add (subtract): Share-based compensation $ 0.07 $ 0.05 $ 0.02 40 % $ 0.22 $ 0.16 $ 0.06 38 % Income Taxes $ 0.07 $ 0.10 $ (0.03 ) -30 % $ 0.29 $ 0.43 $ (0.14 ) -33 % Depreciation $ 0.03 $ 0.03 $ - 0 % $ 0.13 $ 0.12 $ 0.01 8 % Interest Income/Expense $ - $ - $ - 0 % $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) $ - 0 % Adjusted EBITDA Per Share $ 0.47 $ 0.52 $ (0.05 ) -9 % $ 1.67 $ 2.22 $ (0.55 ) -25 % 21 Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 COVID-19 We are dedicated to making every effort to ensure our customers pets receive the medications they need. We are also dedicated to making every effort to ensure the health and safety of our employees. We have continued with working from home where possible and enhanced disinfection and social distancing within our workplace. The Company has been open during our normal business hours without any material disruptions to our operations. We have not seen any major disruptions in our supply chain; however, we have experienced some delays in the delivery of some inventory items. See risk factor The outbreak of the COVID-19 global pandemic and related government, private sector and individual consumer responsive actions may adversely affect our business operations, employee availability, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow for an unknown period of time in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Sales Sales decreased by approximately $35.8 million, or 11.6%, to $273.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from approximately $309.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, was primarily due to decreases in reorder and new order sales. Sales for fiscal year 2022 were impacted by a much more competitive environment, and a crowded advertising market which had substantially higher advertising costs compared to the same period in the prior year. Veterinary visits increased during fiscal year 2022, compared to being down during the prior year. We believe the increase in veterinary visits was primarily due to pet owners needing to visit their veterinarian for their pets annual exam in order to renew their prescriptions, as many veterinarians were closed in the prior year due to the pandemic. The Company acquired approximately 263,000 new customers for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately 443,000 new customers for the same period the prior year. The following chart illustrates sales by various sales classifications: Year Ended March 31, Sales (In thousands) 2022 % 2021 % $ Variance % Variance Reorder Sales $ 250,401 91.6 % $ 272,648 88.2 % $ (22,247 ) -8.2 % New Order Sales $ 23,016 8.4 % $ 36,567 11.8 % $ (13,551 ) -37.1 % Total Net Sales $ 273,417 100.0 % $ 309,215 100.0 % $ (35,798 ) -11.6 % Internet Sales $ 230,263 84.2 % $ 259,404 83.9 % $ (29,141 ) -11.2 % Contact Center Sales $ 43,154 15.8 % $ 49,811 16.1 % $ (6,657 ) -13.4 % Total Net Sales $ 273,417 100.0 % $ 309,215 100.0 % $ (35,798 ) -11.6 % Going forward sales may be adversely affected due to increased competition and consumers giving more consideration to price. The changes in consumer behavior post pandemic makes future sales somewhat challenging to predict. No guarantees can be made that sales will continue to grow in the future. The majority of our product sales are affected by the seasons, due to the seasonality of mainly heartworm, and flea and tick medications. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal year 2022, the Companys sales were approximately 29%, 25%, 22%, and 24%, respectively. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal year 2021, the Companys sales were approximately 31%, 25%, 21%, and 23%, respectively. Cost of sales Cost of sales decreased by approximately $24.0 million, or 10.9% to $195.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from $219.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The cost of sales decrease can be directly related to the decrease in sales during fiscal year 2022. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales was 71.4% in fiscal year 2022, as compared to 70.9% in fiscal 2021. The cost of sales percentage increase was adversely impacted due to the major manufacturers, with whom we have a purchasing relationship, shifting their rebate funding from discounting product costs to more cooperative marketing rebates. 22 Gross profit Gross profit decreased by approximately $11.8 million, or 13.2%, to $78.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from $89.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in gross profit can be directly related to the decrease in sales during fiscal 2022. Gross profit as a percentage of sales for fiscal 2022 was 28.6% compared to 29.1% for fiscal 2021. The decrease in the gross profit percentage was adversely impacted due to the major manufacturers, with whom we have a purchasing relationship, shifting their rebate funding from discounting product costs to more cooperative marketing rebates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased by approximately $2.5 million, or 9.0%, to $30.8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from $28.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to the following: a $1.4 million increase in payroll expenses, the majority of which related to increased stock compensation expense; a $989,000 increase in professional fees related to brand and marketing consultation, legal, and investment banking; and a $514,000 increase in other expenses which include property expenses, travel related expense, insurance expense, and other expenses. Offsetting the increase was a decrease of $397,000 primarily related to decreased bank service fees due to the decrease in sales. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales was 11.3% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, compared to 9.1% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The Company expects general and administrative expense as a percentage of sales to approximate 12.5% and expects stock compensation expense to approximate $6.4 million in fiscal 2023. Advertising expenses Advertising expenses decreased by approximately $2.8 million to $18.8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from $21.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in advertising expenses for fiscal 2022 was due to the Company receiving increased cooperative marketing funds from product manufacturers to offset our advertising expenses, within the terms of our contractual relationships. Overall advertising spending was flat compared to fiscal 2021, yet total net advertising expenses decreased due to increased cooperative advertising rebates. The advertising costs of acquiring a new customer, defined as total advertising costs divided by new customers acquired, was $72 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, compared to $49 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The increase to customer acquisition costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, was due to an increase in overall advertising prices and a less efficient variable marketing spend. Advertising cost of acquiring a new customer can be impacted by the advertising environment, the effectiveness of our advertising creative, advertising spending, and price competition. Historically, the advertising environment fluctuates due to supply and demand. A more favorable advertising environment may positively impact future sales, whereas a less favorable advertising environment may negatively impact future sales. As a percentage of sales, advertising expense was 6.9% and 7.0% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The Company currently anticipates advertising as a percentage of sales to be approximately 7.0% for fiscal year 2023. However, the advertising percentage may fluctuate quarter to quarter due to seasonality and advertising availability. Depreciation Depreciation expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, increased to approximately $2.7 million from $2.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. This increase to depreciation expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, can be attributed to increased new property and equipment additions in fiscal 2022. Other income Other income decreased by approximately $268,000, to $1.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from $1.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was related to a reduction in advertising income in fiscal 2022. Interest income was flat compared to the prior year. Interest income may decrease in the future as the Company utilizes its cash balances on its share repurchase plan, with approximately $28.7 million remaining as of March 31, 2022, on any quarterly dividend payment, on future investment/partnerships, or on its operating activities. 23 Provision for income taxes For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded an income tax provision of approximately $6.0 million and $8.6 million, respectively. The decrease to the income tax provision for fiscal 2022 is related to a decrease in operating income compared to fiscal 2021. The effective tax rate for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022, and 2021 were 22.1% and 22.0%, respectively. The slight increase to the effective rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, can be attributed to the Company receiving more one-time tax benefits in fiscal 2021 than in fiscal 2022. The one-time tax benefits received in fiscal 2021 included a one-time state income tax refund of $285,000 in the June 2020 quarter and a $135,000 income tax benefit related to restricted stock compensation in the September 2020 and March 2021 quarters. This compared to a $196,000 one-time state income tax refund and a $131,000 benefit due to a state rate reduction in the March 2022 quarter. The Company estimates its effective tax rate will be approximately 23.0% for fiscal 2023. Net income Net income decreased by approximately $9.5 million, or 31%, to approximately $21.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, from approximately $30.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The decrease to net income was primarily related to a decrease in sales and resulting gross profit, and an increase in general and administrative expenses, all partially offset by a decrease in advertising expenses, during the fiscal year. Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 Sales Sales increased by approximately $25.1 million, or 8.8%, to $309.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, from approximately $284.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The increase in sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to increased reorder sales and new order sales. Fiscal 2021 started out with greater than expected e-commerce demand due to COVID-19, with consumers shifting their purchases to online, which positively impacted our reorder and new order sales during the year. In the latter half of fiscal 2021, veterinarian clinics and retail stores re-opened. The Company acquired approximately 443,000 new customers for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, compared to approximately 421,000 new customers for the same period the prior year. The following chart illustrates sales by various sales classifications: Year Ended March 31, Sales (In thousands) 2021 % 2020 % $ Variance % Variance Reorder Sales $ 272,648 88.2 % $ 248,560 87.5 % $ 24,088 9.7 % New Order Sales $ 36,567 11.8 % $ 35,565 12.5 % $ 1,002 2.8 % Total Net Sales $ 309,215 100.0 % $ 284,125 100.0 % $ 25,090 8.8 % Internet Sales $ 259,404 83.9 % $ 238,054 83.8 % $ 21,350 9.0 % Contact Center Sales $ 49,811 16.1 % $ 46,071 16.2 % $ 3,740 8.1 % Total Net Sales $ 309,215 100.0 % $ 284,125 100.0 % $ 25,090 8.8 % Going forward sales may be adversely affected due to increased competition and consumers giving more consideration to price. The changes in consumer behavior post pandemic makes future sales somewhat challenging to predict. No guarantees can be made that sales will continue to grow in the future. The majority of our product sales are affected by the seasons, due to the seasonality of mainly heartworm, and flea and tick medications. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal 2021, the Companys sales were approximately 31%, 25%, 21%, and 23%, respectively. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal 2020, the Companys sales were approximately 28%, 25%, 21%, and 26%, respectively. Cost of sales Cost of sales increased by approximately $16.4 million, or 8.1% to $219.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, from $202.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The cost of sales increase can be directly related to the increase in sales during fiscal 2021. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales was 70.9% in fiscal 2021, as compared to 71.4% in fiscal 2020. The cost of sales percentage decrease can be attributed to the benefit of having direct relationships with all major manufacturers, which helped reduce product costs, and these manufacturers having minimum advertised price policies. In the future, cost of sales may be adversely impacted due to the major manufacturers shifting their rebate funding from discounting product costs to cooperative marketing rebates. 24 Gross profit Gross profit increased by approximately $8.7 million, or 10.7%, to $89.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, from $81.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The increase in gross profit can be directly related to the increase in sales during fiscal 2021. Gross profit as a percentage of sales for fiscal 2021 was 29.1% compared to 28.6% for fiscal 2020. The increase in gross profit percentage can be attributed to the benefit of having direct relationships with all major manufacturers, which helped reduce product costs, and these manufacturers having minimum advertised price policies. Going forward gross profit may be adversely affected due to increased competition and consumers giving more consideration to price. In the future, gross profit may also be adversely impacted due to the major manufacturers shifting their rebate funding from discounting product costs to cooperative marketing rebates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased by approximately $3.0 million, or 12.0%, to $28.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 from $25.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to the following: a $1.9 million increase in payroll expenses, due to increased sales and increased COVID-19 related work from home expenses, with $485,000 related to increased stock compensation expense due to the accelerated release of restrictions of the Companys former Chairman Robert Schweitzers restricted stock upon his passing on February 23, 2021; a $619,000 increase in bank service fees due to increased sales; a $388,000 increase in property expenses related to the Companys e-commerce platform; and a $207,000 increase in telephone expenses due to employees working from home in response to COVID-19. Offsetting the increase was a net decrease of $48,000 to other expenses which include insurance, professional fees, and bad debt expense. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales was 9.1% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, compared to 8.9% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Advertising expenses Advertising expenses decreased by approximately $1.1 million to $21.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, from $22.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in advertising expenses for fiscal 2021 was due to the Company receiving increased cooperative marketing funds from product manufacturers to offset our advertising expenses, within the terms of our contractual relationships. Overall advertising spending increased over the prior year, yet total net advertising expenses decreased due to increased cooperative advertising rebates. The advertising costs of acquiring a new customer, defined as total advertising costs divided by new customers acquired, was $49 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, compared to $54 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The decrease to customer acquisition costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 can also be attributed to receiving increased cooperative marketing funds from product manufacturers. Advertising cost of acquiring a new customer can be impacted by the advertising environment, the effectiveness of our advertising creative, advertising spending, and price competition. Historically, the advertising environment fluctuates due to supply and demand. A more favorable advertising environment may positively impact future sales, whereas a less favorable advertising environment may negatively impact future sales. As a percentage of sales, advertising expense was 7.0% and 8.0% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in advertising expense as a percentage of total sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 can be attributed to a decrease in advertising expenses and an increase in sales as compared to the same period in the prior year. The Company currently anticipates advertising as a percentage of sales to be approximately 7% for fiscal 2022. However, the advertising percentage may fluctuate quarter to quarter due to seasonality and advertising availability. Depreciation Depreciation expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 increased slightly to approximately $2.4 million from $2.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. This increase to depreciation expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 can be attributed to increased new property and equipment additions in fiscal 2021. 25 Other income Other income decreased by approximately $1.3 million to $1.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, from $2.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The decrease to other income was primarily related to decreased interest income due to decreased interest rates compared to the prior year. Interest income may decrease in the future as the Company utilizes its cash balances on its share repurchase plan, with approximately $28.7 million remaining at March 31, 2021, on any quarterly dividend payment, on its operating activities, or with further decreases in interest rates. Provision for income taxes For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded an income tax provision of approximately $8.6 million and $8.0 million, respectively. The increase to the income tax provision for fiscal 2021 is related to an increase in operating income compared to fiscal 2020. The effective tax rate for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were 22.0% and 23.7%, respectively. The decrease to the effective rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 can be attributed to the Company receiving a one-time state income tax refund of $285,000 in the June 2020 quarter and a $135,000 income tax benefit related to restricted stock compensation in the September 2020 and March 2021 quarters, compared to a $322,000 income tax charge related to restricted stock compensation, which was recognized in the September 2019 quarter. The Company estimates its effective tax rate will be approximately 23.5% for fiscal 2022. Net income Net income increased by approximately $4.7 million, or 18.4%, to approximately $30.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 from approximately $25.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The increase to net income was primarily related to an increase in gross profit, offset by an increase in operating expenses and a decrease to interest income during the fiscal year. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys working capital at March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately $117.8 million and approximately $116.3 million, respectively. The $1.5 million increase in working capital was primarily attributable to income generated by operations and a reduction to accounts payable, offset by dividends paid in the period. Net cash provided by operating activities was $18.5 million and $40.1 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. This change can be mainly attributed to a decrease in the Companys net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 and a decrease to accounts payable compared to the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.8 million and $2.4 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. This change in investing activities is related to decreased property and equipment additions acquired in fiscal 2022. Net cash used in financing activities was $24.4 million and $22.7 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase to financing activities relates to an increase in the dividend paid in fiscal 2022, compared to the dividend paid in fiscal 2021. At March 31, 2022, the Company had approximately $28.7 million remaining under the Companys share repurchase plan. Subsequent to March 31, 2022, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share on May 9, 2022. The Board established a May 20, 2022 record date and a May 27, 2022 payment date. Depending on future market conditions the Company may utilize its cash and cash equivalents on the remaining balance of its current share repurchase plan, on quarterly dividends, or on its operating activities. At March 31, 2022 the Company had no material outstanding lease commitments. We are not currently bound by any long- or short-term agreements for the purchase or lease of capital expenditures. Any material amounts expended for capital expenditures would be the result of an increase in the capacity needed to adequately provide for any future increase in our business. To date we have paid for any needed additions to our capital equipment infrastructure from working capital funds and anticipate this being the case in the future. Presently, we have approximately $5.0 million forecasted for capital expenditures in fiscal 2023, which will be funded through cash from operations. The Companys primary source of working capital is cash from operations. The Company presently has no need for alternative sources of working capital and has no commitments or plans to obtain additional capital. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Other than disclosures included in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, the Company does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, will have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 26