ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2023, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2023. Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the words "believes," "intends," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "plans," "projects," "contemplates," "intends," "budgets," "predicts," "estimates," "anticipates," or similar expressions. These statements are based on our beliefs, as well as assumptions we have used based upon information currently available to us. Because these statements reflect our current views concerning future events, these statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual future results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2023 under the heading Risk Factors. A reader, whether investing in our common stock or not, should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise indicates, "PetMed Express," "PetMeds," "PetMed," "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refers to PetMed Express, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Executive Summary PetMed Express, Inc. and subsidiaries, d/b/a PetMeds, is a leading nationwide direct-to-consumer pet pharmacy and online provider of prescription and non-prescription medications, food, supplements, supplies and vet services for dogs, cats, and horses. PetMeds markets and sells directly to consumers through its websites, toll-free numbers, and mobile applications. The Company offers consumers an attractive option for obtaining pet medications, foods, and supplies in terms of convenience, price, speed of delivery, and valued customer service. Founded in 1996, the Company's executive headquarters offices are currently located at 420 South Congress Avenue, Delray Beach, Florida 33445, and our telephone number is (561) 526-4444. The Company has a March 31 fiscal year. Presently, our product line includes approximately 15,000 of the most popular pet medications, health products, food and supplies for dogs, cats, and horses. Approximately 10,000 of these items were part of the April 2023 acquisition of PetCareRx. We market our products through national advertising campaigns and social media which aim to increase the recognition of the PetMeds brand name, increase traffic on our website at www.petmeds.com, acquire new customers, and maximize repeat purchases. Our sales consist of products sold mainly to retail consumers. The average purchase was approximately $97 and $95 for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and the results of our operations contained herein are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements and the data used to prepare them. Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. On an ongoing basis we re-evaluate our judgments and estimates including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and our beliefs of what could occur in the future considering available information. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our estimates are guided by observing the following critical accounting policies. Revenue recognition We account for revenue under ASC Topic 606 ("Revenue from Contracts with Customers") and generate revenue by selling pet medication products and pet supplies mainly to retail customers. Certain pet supplies offered on our website are 18 drop shipped to customers. We consider ourself the principal in the arrangement because we control the specified good before it is transferred to the customer. Revenue contracts contain one performance obligation, which is delivery of the product; customer care and support is deemed not to be a material right to the contract. The transaction price is adjusted at the date of sale for any applicable sales discounts and an estimate of product returns, which are estimated based on historical patterns, however this is not considered a key judgment. There are no amounts excluded from the variable consideration. Revenue is recognized when control transfers to the customer at the point in time in which the shipment of the product occurs. This key judgment is determined as the shipping point, which represents the point in time where we have a present right to payment, title has transferred to the customer, and the customer has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership. Outbound shipping and handling fees are an accounting policy election and are included in sales as we consider ourself the principal in the arrangement given responsibility for supplier selection and discretion over pricing. Shipping costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are an accounting policy election and are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. Virtually all of our sales are paid by credit cards and we usually receive the cash settlement in two to three banking days. Credit card sales minimize the accounts receivable balances relative to sales. Membership fees represent the amounts recognized periodically from the PetPlus memberships provided through PetCareRx. In addition to annual membership fees earned under the PetPlus program, the Company also earns membership fees on a month-to-month basis as earned under its monthly partner program. Memberships provide wholesale pricing, free standard shipping, veterinary telehealth services and local Caremark Pharmacy prescription pickup. The PetPlus membership fee is an annual charge and automatically renews one year from the initial enrollment date. We recognize the revenue ratably over the term of the membership which is generally one year. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for losses that we estimate will arise from customers inability to make required payments, arising from either credit card chargebacks or insufficient funds checks. We determine our estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivable by analyzing historical and current bad debts and economic trends in compliance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 326 ("Financial Instruments - Credit Losses"). The allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $38 thousand at June 30, 2023, compared to $35 thousand at March 31, 2023. Business Combinations We account for our business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805 ("Business Combinations"). The purchase price is allocated to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired or assumed are measured separately at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree is recorded as goodwill. The results of businesses acquired in a business combination are included in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management to use significant judgment and estimates, including the selection of valuation methodologies, estimates of future revenue and cash flows, discount rates and selection of comparable companies. The estimates and assumptions used to determine the fair values and useful lives of identified intangible assets could change due to numerous factors, including market conditions, technological developments, economic conditions, and competition. In connection with the determination of fair values, we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to assist with the valuation of intangible and certain tangible assets acquired and certain obligations assumed. Acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by us are not included as a component of consideration transferred but are accounted for as an operating expense in the period in which the costs are incurred. Use of Estimates The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the attached unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Income taxes 19 We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740 (Accounting for Income Taxes), which generally requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax benefits or consequences of events that have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting carrying values and the tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured by applying enacted tax rates and laws for the taxable years in which those differences are expected to reverse. As a result of the acquisition, the Company performed a Section 382 analysis to determine if the net operating losses carried forward will have a utilization limitation. Any limitation may result in the expiration of a portion of the federal net operating loss carryforward before utilization, which would reduce the Company's gross deferred tax assets. As of April 3, 2023, and prior to the acquisition, PetCareRx had approximately $96.0 million of net operating losses and $1.9 million of disallowed interest expense. The results of the Section 382 analysis determined the net operating loss and disallowed interest expense in total, would be limited and reduced to $35.0 million. Acquisition On April 3, 2023, the Company acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of PetCareRx, Inc. (PetCareRx), a New York corporation and a leading supplier of pet food, pet medications, and supplies. The acquisition was completed pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger ("Merger Agreement") by and among the Company, Harry Merger Sub, Inc., a New York corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), PetCareRx and Jeanette Loeb (as representative of the PetCareRx equity holders). The Merger Agreement provided for the Companys acquisition of PetCareRx pursuant to the merger of Merger Sub with and into PetCareRx, with PetCareRx as the surviving corporation. The aggregate purchase price consideration was $36.1 million and was provided from the Company's cash on hand. The fair values of intangible assets acquired consist of a trade name, customer relationships, and developed technology, which were estimated by applying various discounted cash flow models such as the relief from royalty rate for the trade name, the multi-period excess earnings method for the customer relationships, and the cost to replace method for the developed technology. The fair value measurements were based on significant inputs that are not observable (Level 3). The assumptions made by management in determining the fair value of intangible assets included a discount rate of 12% based on the weighted average cost of capital. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates, significant capital market and supply chain volatility, and global economic and geopolitical developments, have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are difficult to isolate and quantify. In addition, rising fuel, utility, and food costs, rising interest rates, and recessionary fears may impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our revenue growth rates. We expect some or all of these factors to continue to impact our operations for the remainder of fiscal 2024. 20 Results of Operations The following should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. The following table sets forth, as a percentage of sales, certain operating data appearing in our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of (Loss) Income: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 71.2 71.6 Gross profit 28.8 28.4 Operating expenses: General and administrative 20.2 13.3 Advertising 9.3 9.0 Depreciation and amortization 2.1 1.1 Total operating expenses 31.6 23.4 (Loss) income from operations (2.8) 5.0 Total other income 1.4 0.4 (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (1.4) 5.4 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (0.1) 1.4 Net (loss) income (1.3) % 4.0 % Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors and the market with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed (see below) adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income excluding share-based compensation expense; depreciation and amortization; income tax provision; interest income (expense); and other non-operational expenses. We have provided reconciliations below of adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We have included adjusted EBITDA, herein, because it is a key measure used by our management and Board of Directors to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparability across reporting periods by removing the effect of non-cash expenses and other expenses. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. We believe it is useful to exclude non-cash charges, such as share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization from our adjusted EBITDA because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations. We believe it is useful to exclude income tax provision and interest income (expense), as neither are components of our core business operations. We also believe that it is useful to exclude other expenses, including the investment banking fee related to the Vetster partnership, acquisition costs related 21 to PetCareRx, employee severance and estimated state sales tax accrual as these items are not indicative of our ongoing operations. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect share-based compensation. Share-based compensation has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a material recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest income (expense), net; or changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect transaction related costs and other items which are either not representative of our underlying operations or are incremental costs that result from an actual or planned transaction and include litigation matters, integration consulting fees, internal salaries and wages (to the extent the individuals are assigned full-time to integration and transformation activities) and certain costs related to integrating and converging IT systems; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain non-operating expenses including the employee severance which reduces cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain expenses including the estimated state sales tax accrual which reduces cash available to us. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces the measures usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, adjusted EBITDA should only be considered as supplemental to, and alongside with other GAAP based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income, net margin, and our other GAAP results. 22 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures PetMed Express, Inc. (Unaudited) Three Months Ended ($ in thousands, except percentages) June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 $ Change % Change Consolidated Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net (loss) income $ (887) $ 2,775 $ (3,662) (132) % Add (subtract): Share-based Compensation $ 1,760 $ 1,536 $ 224 15 % Income Taxes $ (115) $ 1,030 $ (1,145) (111) % Depreciation and Amortization $ 1,678 $ 753 $ 925 123 % Interest (Income)/Expense $ (620) $ (117) $ (503) 430 % Acquisition/Partnership Transactions and Other Items $ 1,126 $ 355 $ 771 n/m Employee Severance $ 393 $ $ 393 n/m Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,335 $ 6,332 $ (2,997) (47) % Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 Compared With Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 Sales Sales increased by approximately $8.1 million, or 11.5%, to approximately $78.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, compared to approximately $70.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The increase in sales for the three months ended June 30, 2023 was due to to incremental sales from the combination of PetCareRx, growth in PetMeds new customer sales with an offset by declines in PetMeds reorder sales. . We acquired approximately 86,000 new customers for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 compared to approximately 69,000 new customers for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The following tables illustrates sales by various sales classifications: Three Months Ended June 30, Revenue (In thousands) 2023 % 2022 % $ Variance % Variance Reorder sales $ 68,038 87.0 % $ 63,339 90.2 % $ 4,699 7.4 % New order sales 7,820 10.0 % 6,848 9.8 % 972 14.2 % Membership fees 2,386 3.0 % % 2,386 % Total net sales $ 78,244 100.0 % $ 70,187 100.0 % $ 8,057 11.5 % 23 We remain encouraged by the adoption of our AutoShip program and have seen an increasingly positive trend over the last several quarters since we launched this program. For example, our quarterly AutoShip percentage was 48.7% of net sales for the most recent quarter ended June 30, 2023, up from 33.9% of net sales for the same period last year and up from 44.4% of net sales sequentially in the prior quarter. We have set a goal of generating approximately 50% of our PetMeds net sales via the AutoShip program in fiscal 2024. Going forward, sales may be adversely affected due to increased competition and consumers giving more consideration to price. The changes in consumer behavior due to macroeconomic factors makes future sales somewhat challenging to predict. No guarantees can be made that sales will grow in the future. The majority of our product sales are affected by the seasons, due to the seasonality of mainly flea and tick and heartworm medications. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal 2023, our sales were approximately 27%, 26%, 23%, and 24%, respectively, as a percentage of annual sales. For the quarters ended June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of fiscal year 2022, our sales were approximately 29%, 25%, 22%, and 24%, respectively, as a percentage of annual sales. Cost of sales Cost of sales increased by approximately $5.5 million, or 10.9%, to approximately $55.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, from approximately $50.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The cost of sales increase was primarily due to higher sales in the current period. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales was 71.2% and 71.6% for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Gross profit Gross profit increased by approximately $2.6 million, or 13.0%, to approximately $22.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, from approximately $19.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 28.8% and 28.4% for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The gross profit and gross profit percentage increase for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to favorable rebates from the combination of PetCareRx. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased by approximately $6.4 million, or 68.0%, to approximately $15.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, from approximately $9.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The increase to general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 was due to a $3.3 million increase in payroll expenses, of which $0.2 million is from increased stock compensation and $0.4 million from accrued severance, a $1.6 million increase of professional fees, of which $1.1 million were acquisition related costs, as well as a $0.6 million increase of software and systems expense, and a $0.8 million increase of variable and other overhead expenses primarily attributed to the combination of PetCareRx. Advertising expenses Advertising expenses increased by approximately $0.9 million, or 14.4%, to approximately $7.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, from approximately $6.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The increase for the quarter can be attributed to higher media spend and increased agency fees. The advertising costs of acquiring a new customer, defined as total advertising costs divided by new customers acquired, was $84 for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 compared to $91 for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The decrease to customer acquisition costs for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, was due to more efficient variable marketing spend and a greater diversity of products offered creating economies of scope. The advertising cost of acquiring a new customer can be impacted by the advertising environment, the effectiveness of our advertising creative, spending, and price competition. Historically, the advertising environment fluctuates due to supply and demand. A more favorable advertising environment may positively impact future sales, whereas a less favorable advertising environment may negatively impact future sales. As a percentage of sales, advertising expense was 9.3% and 9.0% for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. However, the advertising percentage may fluctuate quarter to quarter due to seasonality and advertising availability. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense was $1.7 million and $0.8 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and June 30, 2022, respectively. This increase to depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter can be attributed to new 24 property and equipment additions, as well as the intangibles acquired from PetCareRx that are being amortized subsequent to the prior period. Other income Other income increased to approximately $1.1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 compared to approximately $0.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The increase to other income for the quarter was primarily related to additional interest income as a result of higher interest rates, as well as increased rental income from PetCareRx. Interest income may decrease in the future based on several factors, including utilization of our cash balances towards quarterly dividend payments, on future investments or partnerships, or on our operating activities. Additionally, interest income could decrease if the current interest rate environment changes, or on our share repurchase plan, which has approximately $28.7 million remaining as of June 30, 2023. Provision for income taxes For the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $(0.1) million and a tax provision of approximately $1.0 million, respectively. The decrease in the tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2023 is related to the utilization of net operating losses available made available due to the acquisition of PetCareRx. The effective tax rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 was approximately 11.5%, compared to approximately 27.1% for the quarter ended June 30, 2022. The decrease to the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2023 can be attributed to deductible expenses and net operating losses offsetting taxable income partially offset by an increase in state income tax. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital at June 30, 2023 and March 31, 2023 was $48.5 million and $95.0 million, respectively. The $46.4 million decrease in working capital was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash to fund the $36.1 million PetCareRx acquisition, and a $10.2 millon increase in inventory in part related to the acquisition of PetCareRx. Net cash provided by operating activities was $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $6.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022. This change is due to an increase in accounts payable and inventory in the three months ended June 30, 2023 than in the same period the prior year, as well as a decrease to net income. Net cash used in investing activities was $37.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $6.0 million used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2022. This change in investing activities is related to the PetCareRx acquisition, and increased property and equipment additions acquired in the three months ended June 30, 2023. Net cash used in financing activities was $6.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and the three months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, due to the payment of an aggregate of $0.30 per share dividend in each quarter. As of June 30, 2023, we had approximately $28.7 million remaining under our share repurchase plan. On July 31, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a $0.30 per share dividend, with a August 14, 2023 record date and a August 18, 2023 payment date. The declaration and payment of future dividends is discretionary and will be subject to a determination by the Board of Directors each quarter. When considering whether to declare a dividend, our Board of Directors will take into account: Strategic uses of cash for growth initiatives; General economic and business conditions; Our financial condition and operating results; Our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs; Our capital requirements; Contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us; and Such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. As of June 30, 2023, we had $2.1 million in outstanding lease commitments assumed for the leases on two buildings occupied by PetCareRx. Other than foregoing leases, we are not currently bound by any material long - or short-term commitments for the purchase or lease of capital expenditures. Any material amounts expended for capital expenditures would be the result of an increase in the capacity needed to adequately provide for any future increase in our business. To date we have paid for any needed additions to our capital equipment infrastructure from working capital funds and anticipate this being the case in the future. Our primary source of working capital is cash from operations. We presently have no need for alternative sources of working capital and have no commitments. 25