Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesGoodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do busine ss, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. We are subject to global economic, political and social conditions that may cause customers to delay or reduce technology purchases due to economic downturns, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factor s affecting spending behavior. W e face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experience d by our suppliers, resellers or customers, including: The risk that customers or resellers to whom we sell our products and services may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment of accounts receivable that those customers or resellers may owe; The risk that key suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in the products that we sell may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of printers, print materials or spare parts to our customers; and The inability of customers, including resellers, suppliers and contract manufacturers to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products and raw materials used to build those products . We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasin g our costs of doing business. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third - party intellectual property claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from assembling or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the marketplaces in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and endeavor to combat unlicensed copying and use of our digital content and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. If our intellectual property becomes subject to piracy attacks, they may harm our business. 17 Additionally, we endeavor to protect the secrecy of our digital content, confidential information and trade secrets. If unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets occurs , we could potentially lose trade secret protection. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying previously confidential features , which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements. However there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights. If we cease to generate net cash flow from operations and if we are unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition c ould be adversely affect ed and we may not be able to execute our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash from operations or other potential sources to fund future working capital needs and meet capital expenditure requirements. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring or incurring additional debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to obtain additional capital or refinance any indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the capital markets, our financial condition at such time and the terms and conditions of any such financing or indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations . During 2014 we carried out one capital markets transaction and received $299.7 million of net proceeds. We also entered into a revolving, unsecured credit facility with PNC Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders party thereto during 2014 . The Credit Agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. From time-to-time we may seek access to additional external sources of capital to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes. However, we cannot assure you that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or equity financings or other potential sources to fund any of those future needs . If our ability to generate cash flow from operations and our existing cash becomes inadequate to meet our needs, our options for addressing such capital constraints include, but are not limited to, (i) obtaining additional debt financing or increasing the limit on our current revolving credit facility, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to obtain additional debt financing it is likely that such alternatives in the current market environment would be on less favorable terms than we have historically obtained, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows . The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or enter into other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy and we would not be able to execute our growth strategy . The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product s, materials and services offerings, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margins depending upon the mix of product shipments from quarter to quarter. Additionally, the introduction of new products or services may further heighten quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margins due to manuf acturing ramp-up and start-up costs. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the mix of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. In some quarters, it is possible that our financial performance could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or decline and o ur cost of capital may increase . 18 We derive a significant portion of our revenue from business conducted outside the U.S and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S . For the year ended 2014, 49.1% of our consolidated revenue is derived from customers in countries outside the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of o ur operations outside the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, they could be adversely affected by: Unexpected changes in laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad ; Changes in regulatory requirements, including e xport controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions, competition, corporate practices and data privacy concerns ; Political policies, political or civil unrest, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks ; Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe and extended holiday periods in various parts of the world ; Limited protection for the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights in some countries; Potentially longer sales cycles and payment cycles; Transportation delays; Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; Operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; Potentially adverse changes in t axation ; and O ther factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. These uncertainties may make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities and may lead our customers in certain countries to delay purchases of our products and services. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in global financial markets and economies. The consequences of terrorism or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. While the geographic areas outside the U.S. in which we operate are generally not considered to be highly inflationary, our foreign operations are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates arising from, among other things, certain intercompany transactions that are generally denominated, for example, in U.S. dollars rather than their respective functional currencies. Moreover, our operations are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our results of oper ations and financial condition. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when we consider it to be appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 19 We depend on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials. If these relationships were to terminate or be disrupted , our business could be disrupted while we locate d alternative supplier s and our expenses may increase. W e have outsourced the assembly of certain of our printers to third party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our printers from third party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our print materials , as well as certain of those print materials, from third party suppliers. While there are several potential suppliers of the components, parts and sub - assemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components, including our lasers, print materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers involves many risks including: Potential shortages of some key components; Disruptions in the operations of these suppliers; Product performance shortfalls; and Reduced control over delivery schedules, assembly capabilities, quality and costs. While we believe that we can obtain all the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become qualified pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying duration s . We generally have our printers and other products assembled based on our internal forecasts and the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties, which are subject to various lead times . In addition, at any time, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use. Any unanticipated change in the source s of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations . Inversely, we may lose orders if our forecast is low and we are unable to meet demand. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble certain of our production printers . In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including: The risk that the parties that we retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; The risk of disruption in the supply of printers or other products to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of printers or other products that are needed to meet then current customer demand ; and The risk of insolvency of these suppliers, as well as the risks that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. 20 Our operations could suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key management or other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Our senior executive team is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as to the development of our strategy. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior executive team could delay or prevent the successful implementation of our growth strategy, or our commercialization of new applications for our systems or other products, or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to manage our company effectively and carry out our business plan. Members of our senior management team may resign at any time. High demand exists for senior management and other key personnel (including scientific, technical and sales personnel) in the 3D printing industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. While we intend to continue to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, some of our competitors for these employees have greater resources and more experience, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. If we cannot attract and retain sufficiently qualified technical employees for our research and development and manufacturing operations, we may be unable to achieve the synergies expected from mergers and acquisitions that we may effect from time to time, or to develop and commercialize new products or new applications for existing products. Furthermore, possible shortages of key personnel, including engineers, in the regions surrounding our facilities could require us to pay more to hire and retain key personnel, thereby increasing our costs . Our p r odu c t s a n d serv i ce s ma y ex p er i e n c e qu a li t y p r ob l em s f r o m t i m e t o t i m e t h a t ca n res u l t in d ecrease d sa l e s a n d op era t i n g mar g i n a n d h ar m t o our re pu t a t i on . We sell comple x hardwar e an d softwar e product s, materials an d service s tha t ca n contai n desig n an d manufacturin g defects . Sophisticate d softwar e an d applications , suc h a s thos e sol d b y us , may contai n bugs tha t ca n unexpectedl y interfer e wit h th e software s intende d operation . Defect s ma y als o occu r i n component s an d product s we purchase fro m thir d parties . Ther e ca n b e n o assuranc e we wil l b e abl e t o detec t an d fi x al l defect s i n th e hardware , softwar e, materials an d service s we sell . Failur e t o d o s o coul d resul t i n los t revenue , significan t warrant y an d othe r expense s an d har m t o our reputation . We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed and used by customers. This could result in lost revenue, delayed market place acceptance of the product, claims from customers or others, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer . Their effect is subject to a variety of legal limitations and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and failure to retain existing customers or to attract new customers. We face risks in connection with changes in energy-related expenses. We and our suppliers depend on various energy products in processes used to produce our products. Generally, we acquire products at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge energy prices. As a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in energy prices. In addition, many of the customers and industries to whom we market our products and services are directly or indirectly dependent upon the cost and availability of energy resources. Our business and profitability may be adversely affected to the extent that our or our customers energy-related expenses increase, both as a result of higher costs of producing, and potentially lower profit margins in selling, our products and services and because increased energy costs may cause our customers to delay or reduce purchases of our products and services. 21 We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems: to, among other things, effectively manage our accounting and financial functions, including maintaining our internal controls; to manage our manufacturing and supply chain processes; and to maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. Although we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet and Internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, natural or man-made disasters, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our reputation and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shut down; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, considerable volatility. Between January 1, 201 3 and December 31, 201 4 , after giving effect to the three-for-two stock split in the nature of a 50% stock dividend that we distributed in February 2013, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $ 28.38 per share to a high of $ 96.42 per share. Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including those described or referred to in this Risk Factors section of this Form 10-K, as well as, among other things: O ur perceived value in the securities markets ; O verall trends in the stock market; A nnouncements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one or more of our competitors; T he impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects or on how we are perceived in the securities markets; Future sales of our common stock or other securities (including any shares issued in connection with earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition) ; M arket conditions for providers of products and services such as ours; C hanges in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and A nnouncements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. The number of shares of common stock issuable in a stock offering , the issuance of restricted stock awards or the issuance of shares in connection with certain acquisitions or the conversion of the notes could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may affect the market price for our common stock. We may issue additional securities , from time to time , as necessary to provide flexibility to execute our growth strategy . We rais ed net proceeds of approximately $ 299.7 million and $272.1 million through issuances of common stock in 2014 and 2013, respectively . Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our issuance of up to a total 220.0 million shares of common stock, of which 112.2 million shares have been issued or are otherwise currently reserved for issuance. Future issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. 22 Additionally, subject to the limitations of our Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to re ceive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options, may dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our business involves the blending, controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. If we are subject to any liability as a result of activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and may create challenges with our customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) and adjoining countries. The SEC has established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals sourced from the DRC and adjoining countri es in their products. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict-free minerals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain these conflict-free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive p rices. Compliance with these requirements may also increase our costs, including costs that may be incurred in conducting due diligence procedures to determine the sources of certain minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, we may face challenges with our customers if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, none of which is currently issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely a ffect the rights of holders of common stock . Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock . In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including dividend rights, liquidation preferences and other economic rights, senior to the common stock , which could have a n adverse effect on the market value of our common stock . Certain provisions of Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares , possibly at a premium over the then mar ket price of our common stock. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met . 23 Changes in , or interpretation of , tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a U.S. based, multinational company subject to tax ation in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS ) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that we expect may result from the current exami nations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investments. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and United Kingdom Bribery Act (the Bribery Act), export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS). As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign customers, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPAs prohibition on providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. In addition, the provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals that a government does not employ. Some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA, OFAC or Bribery Act violations in the future. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the DDTC, the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the BIS, and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by OFAC. The EAR governs products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called dual use items, and ITAR governs military items listed on the United States Munitions List. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, including the FCPA, the Bribery Act and trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, the DDTC and BIS, and have trained our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, and that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries, persons and entities, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We occupy an 80,000 square foot headquarters , research and development and manufacturing facility in Rock Hill, South Carolina , which we lease pursuant to a lease agreement with Lex Rock Hill , LP. After its initial term ending August 31, 2021, the lease provides us with the option to renew the lease for two additional five-year terms as well as the right to cause Lex Rock Hill, LP , subject to certain terms and conditions, to expand the leased premises during the term of the lease, in which case the term of the lease would be extended. The lease is a triple net lease and provides for the payment of base rent of approximately $0.7 million annually from 201 4 through 2020, with a rent escalation in 2016 through 2021 . Under the terms of the lease, we are obligated to pay all taxes, insurance, utilities and other operating costs with respect to the leased premises . Pursuant to the terms of the lease, we exercised the right to purchase the undeveloped land surrounding the leased premises in March 2 011 . We purchased th is 11-acre parcel contiguous to our Rock Hill facility for future expansion and additional facility capacity to continue to expand in-house manufacturing activities for printers and print materials. In addition, we own our Lawrenceburg, Tennessee production facility and lease various other facilities throughout the world. The table below summarizes those facilities greater than 10,000 square feet per location . Location Square Feet Primary Function Rock Hill, South Carolina 200,000 Production and warehouse Wilsonville, Oregon 79,900 Research and development Andover, Massachusetts 57,600 Production and research and development and sales Baja, Mexico 49,400 Quickparts services Tulsa, Oklahoma 44,000 Quickparts services Sao Paulo, Brazil 37,000 Quickparts services Lawrenceburg, Tennessee 36,000 Quickparts services Rock Hill, South Carolina 33,700 Production and warehouse Riom, France 33,300 Production and research and development and sales Turin, Italy 32,300 Quickparts services Seoul, Korea 30,900 Research and development and sales Barberton, Ohio 30,500 Production and research and development and sales Seattle, Washington 29,400 Quickparts services Leuven, Belgium 28,400 Quickparts services Herndon, Virginia 27,000 Production and research and development and sales Burbank, California 23,000 Production and research and development and sales Golden, Colorado 22,400 Production and research and development and sales High Wycombe, United Kingdom 22,300 Quickparts services Cary, North Carolina 21,800 Research and development and sales Le Mans, France 21,200 Quickparts services Budel, Netherlands 19,900 Quickparts services Langhorne, Pennsylvania 18,800 Quickparts services Airport City, Israel 16,600 Production and research and development and sales Marly, Switzerland 15,300 Production and research and development and sales Gahanna, Ohio 13,300 Quickparts services Hemel Hempstead, United Kingdom 12,400 General and corporate Valencia, California 11,000 Research and development Atlanta, Georgia 10,900 Quickparts services Item 3. Legal Proceedings For information relating to legal proceedings, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable . PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On May 26, 2011, we transferred the listing of our Common Stock to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the trading symbol DDD. Prior to that, our Common Stock was listed on The NASDAQ Global Market (NASDAQ) and traded under the symbol TDSC. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high an d low prices of our c ommon s tock , $0.001 par value, as quoted on the NYSE, with ticker DDD . In addition, we completed a three-for-two stock split in the form of a 50% stock dividend, effective February 15, 2013, which is reflected in the prices in the table below. Year Period High Low 2013 First Quarter $ 46.53 $ 29.16 Second Quarter 50.22 30.75 Third Quarter 55.69 44.87 Fourth Quarter 92.93 49.46 2014 First Quarter $ 96.42 $ 56.81 Second Quarter 59.80 44.80 Third Quarter 63.46 46.37 Fourth Quarter 44.54 28.38 As of February 18 , 201 5 , our outstanding c ommon stock was held by approximately 879 s tockholders of record . This figure does not reflect the beneficial ownership of shares held in the nominee name. Dividends We do not currently pay , and have not paid, any dividends on our common s tock, and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in our business. Any future determination as to the declaration o f dividends on our c ommon s tock will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, operating and financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors, including the applicable requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that dividends are payable only out of surplus or current net profits. The payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by the provisions of credit agreements or other financing documents that we may enter into or the terms of securities that we may issue from time to time. Currently, no such agreements or documents limit our declaration of dividends or payments of dividends, other than our $150 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility with PNC, which limits the amount of cash dividends that we may pay in any one fiscal year to $30 .0 million . Issuance of Unregistered Securities and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On February 18, 2014, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of Digital PlaySpace, Inc. , we issued 0.03 million unregistered shares of 3D Systems Corporation common stock to Digital Playspace, Inc ., which represented to us that it was an Accredited Investor as defined in Regulation D of the S ecurities Act of 1933, as amende d, in reliance on the private offering exemptions contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and on Regula tion D promulgated thereunder. The fair value of the consideration paid for this acquisition, net of cash acquired, was approximately $4 .0 million, of which approximately $2 .0 million was paid in cash and $2 .0 million was paid in unregistered shares of the Companys common stock. On April 2, 2014, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Medical Modeling Inc. , we issued 0.3 million unregistered shares of 3D Systems Corporation common stock to the sellers of Medical Mode ling Inc., each of whom represented to us that he was an Accredit ed Investor as defined in Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance on the private offering exemptions contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and on Regula tion D promulgated thereunder. The fair value of the consideration paid for this acquisition, net of cash acquired, was approximately $69.0 million , of which approximately $ 51.5 million was paid in cash and $17.5 million was paid in unregistered shares of the Companys common stock. 26 On August 6, 2014, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of certain assets of Bordner and Associates, Inc. d/b/a Laser Reproductions, we issued 0.09 million unregistered shares of 3D Systems Corporation common stock to Bordner and Associates, Inc., which represented to us that it was an Accredited Investor as defined in Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance on the private offering exemptions contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and on Regulation D promul gated thereunder. The fair value of the consideration paid for this acquisition, net of cash acquired, was approximately $17 .5 million, of which approximately $13.1 million was paid in cash and $4.4 million was paid in unregistered shares of the Companys common stock. We did not repurchase any of our equi ty securities during the year ended 20 14, except for unvested restricted stock awards repurchased pursuant to our 2004 Incentive Stock Plan. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Equity Compensation Plans under Item 12. Also see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Performance Graph The graph below shows, for the fi ve years ended December 31, 2014 , the cumulative total return on an investment of $100 assumed to hav e been made on December 31, 2009 in our c ommon s tock. For purposes of the graph, cumulative total return assumes the reinvestment of all dividends. The graph compares such return with those of comparable investments assumed to have been made on the same date in (a) the NYSE Composite Index, ( b ) the S&P 500 Information Technology Index, and (c) the S&P Mid-Cap 400 Index, which are published market indices with which we are sometimes compared. Although total return for the assumed investment assumes the reinvestment of all dividends on December 31 of the year in which such dividends were paid, we paid no cas h dividends on our c ommon s tock during the periods presented. Our common stock is listed on t he NYSE (trading symbol: DDD ). COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* * $100 invested on 12/31/0 9 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 12/09 12/10 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 3D Systems Corporation $ 100 $ 279 $ 255 $ 944 $ 2,465 $ 872 NYSE Composite Index 100 114 110 128 161 172 S&P 500 Information Technology Index 100 110 113 130 166 200 27 S&P 500 Mid-Cap 400 Index 100 127 124 147 196 215 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected consolidated financial data set forth below for the five years ended December 31, 20 14 have been derived from our historical C onsolidated F inancial S tatements. You should read this information together with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the notes to the selec ted consolidated financial data and our C onsolidated F inancial S tatements and the notes thereto for December 31, 20 14 and prior years included in this Form 10-K . Year ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Consolidated Statement of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income Data: Consolidated Revenue: Products $ 283,339 $ 227,627 $ 126,798 $ 66,665 $ 54,686 Materials 158,859 128,405 103,182 70,641 58,431 Services 211,454 157,368 123,653 93,117 46,751 Total 653,652 513,400 353,633 230,423 159,868 Gross Profit 317,434 267,594 181,196 109,028 73,976 Income from operations 26,315 80,861 60,571 34,902 20,920 Net income (a) 11,946 44,119 38,941 35,420 19,566 Net income available to common stockholders 11,637 44,107 38,941 35,420 19,566 Net income available to common stockholders per share: Basic and diluted $ 0.11 $ 0.45 $ 0.48 $ 0.47 $ 0.28 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 432,199 $ 416,399 $ 212,285 $ 202,357 $ 42,475 Total assets 1,525,970 1,097,856 677,442 462,974 208,800 Current portion of debt and capitalized lease obligations 684 187 174 163 224 Long term debt and capitalized lease obligations, less current portion 8,905 18,693 87,974 138,716 8,055 Total stockholders' equity 1,294,125 933,792 480,333 254,788 133,119 Other Data: Depreciation and amortization $ 55,188 $ 30,444 $ 21,229 $ 11,093 $ 7,520 Interest expense 1,227 3,425 12,468 2,090 587 Capital expenditures (b) 22,727 6,972 3,224 2,870 1,283 (a) In 2014 , 201 3 and 2012 , based upon our recent results of operations and expectation of continued profitability in future years, we concluded that it is more likely than not that our ne t U.S. deferred tax assets will be realized. In accordance with ASC 740, in 2012 we released valuation allowances associated with U.S. de ferred tax assets resulting in non-cash income tax benefits of $5,372 . (b) Excludes capital lease additions. 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The fol lowing discussion and analysis should be read together with the selected consolidated financial data and our C onsolidated F inancial S tatements and notes there to set forth in this Form 10-K . Certain statements contained in this discussion may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that c ould cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in any forward-looking statements, as discussed more fully in this Form 10-K. See Forward-Looking Statements and Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A. The forward-looking information set forth in this Form 10-K is provided as of the date of this filing, and, except as required by law, we undertake no duty to update that information. Overview We provide the most advanced and comprehensive 3D digital design and fabrication solutions available today, including 3D printers, print materials and cloud-sourced custom parts. Our powerful ecosystem transforms entire industries by empowering professionals and consumers everywhere to bring their ideas to life using our vast material selection, including plastics, metals, ceramics and edibles. Our leading personalized medicine capabilities include end-to-end simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments and devices for personalized surgery and patient specific medical and dental devices. Our democratized 3D digital design, fabrication and inspection products provide seamless interoperability and incorporate the latest immersive computing technologies. Our products and services disrupt traditional methods, deliver improved results and empower our customers to manufacture the future now. Growth strategy We are pursuing a growth strategy that focuses on strategic initiatives and near term significant growth opportunities in five key areas : Manufacturing; Metals; Medical; Materials; and Mainstreet. We anticipate the ongoing transition of 3D printing from the design and prototyping lab to the factory floor, and we plan to continue to invest in advanced manufacturing applications to enha nce and accelerate that shift. In 2014, we launched several new industrial 3D printers with increased speeds, print capabilities, and build areas as well as introduced print materials with improved strength, temperature and durability, all geared towards demanding manufacturing and end-use part applications. We are continuing development of our continuous, high speed fab-grade manufacturing printer platform with a modular, racetrack design and full color, photo-realistic polymer parts capabilities. This breakthrough product is designed for advanced manufacturing from consumer goods to automotive applications. In November 2014, we announced our acquisition of Cimatron, a leading CAD/CAM provider, to strengthen our 3D digital design and fabrication portfolio. The acquisition was completed on February 9, 2015. Cimatron adds designed-for-manufacturing CAD/CAM programs, expertise and resellers, which we intend to utilize across our portfolio of solutions and in the path to hybridization of additive and traditional manufacturing . During 2014, we also continued to expand our Quickparts service capabilities, expertise and global footprint, adding strategic acquisitions within the U nited States and Latin America. We enhanced our direct metal printing offering this year through internal developments, including the introduction of the ProX 400 direct metals printer, and the acquisition of LayerWise. LayerWise added a second proprietary printing technology and expanded the range of metals materials that we can use to print fully dense, chemically pure metal parts. We view metals as an open ended opportunity with immediate addressable markets within aerospace, automotive and healthcare. 30 Healthcare is our fastest growing vertical and in 2014 we made significant investments in personalized medicine. Our acquisitions of Medical Modeling, Simbionix and LayerWise augmented our 3D healthcare portfolio and strengthened our capabilities in 3D printing enabled personalized surgery and patient speci fic medical and dental devices. These acquisitions expanded our healthcare digital thread from the trai ning room to the operating room. W e have appointed one of our senior executives to fully leverage these acquisitions through his expertise and leadership , to create a seamless w orkflow through the full range of personalized medicine opportunities. We believe that continued development in print materials is critical to the continued advancement and penetration of 3D printing. To this end, we made significant advances in materials during 2014, includin g introducing ten new materials from plastics and flexible materials to high-performance and high temperature advanced materials. Along with new materials, we continue to add and enhance formulations and drive speed improvement s, throughput and recyclability. In addition to internal research and development (R&D), we also acquired a specialties product line related to our materials business, providing us with vertical integration and a team of chemists and materials scientists to enable further 3D print materials innovation and advancement. We believe that mainstreaming 3D printing and bringing it to mainstreet are important, both as a current market opportunity and to help drive awareness and longer term adoption of the technology. We have introduced plug and play consumer 3D printers, software, content creation tools and app lication s at lower price points with simple to use, intuitive formats along with curate d collections of home, fashion, hobby and entertainment items. As part of this initiative, we are also partnering with educational organizations to bring 3D printers and curriculum to K-12 classrooms and labs, as well as libraries and museums. We believe that democratizing access to 3D printers will accelerate adoption and empowers todays users with tomorrows design and manufacturing skills. We are working to accomplish our growth initiatives organically and, as opportunities arise, through selective acquisitions, including those we have already completed. We expect to be able to support organic growth by leveraging our comprehensive technology and solutions, core competencies and experienced management team to scale our business model. As with any growth strategy, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in accomplishing our strategic initiatives. Summary of 20 14 Financial Results As discussed in greater detail below, revenue for the year ended 20 14 increased from higher sales across all revenue categories . O ur revenue increased by 27.3 % to $ 653.7 million in 201 4, compared to $ 513.4 million in 20 13 and $ 353.6 million in 20 12 . These results reflected growth in demand for 3D printers and materials as well as healthcare products and services. We calculate organic growth by comparing this years total revenue for the period, excluding the revenue recognized from all acquired businesses that we have owned for less than twelve months, to last years total revenue for the period. Once we have owned a business for one year, the revenue is included in organic growth. Organic growth is calculated based on total re venue for the prior year period . In 201 4 , our organic growth was 7.2 % for the fourth quarter and 13.3% for the full year. In 201 3 , our organic growth was 34.3 % for the fourth quarter and 29.4 % for the full year. Healthcare revenue includes sales of products, materials, and services for health-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments and medical and dental devices for personalized medicine . For the fourth quarter of 2014, healthcare revenue grew 96.0% and accounted for $42.8 million, or 22.8%, of our total revenue compared to $21.8 million, or 14.1%, in 2013. For the year ended 20 14, healthcare revenue grew 80.3% and accounted for $129.3 million, or 19.8%, of our total revenue compared to $71.7 million, or 14.0%, in 2013 . Consumer revenue includes sales of our Cube series 3D printers and their related print materials, Sense 3D scanners and other products and services related to consumer products and retail channels. For the fourth quarter of 2014, consumer revenue was $15.0 million, or 8.0% of our total revenue, compared to $8.9 million or 5.8% of revenue, in the fourth quarter of 2013. For the year ended 2014, consumer revenue was $43.8 million, or 6.7% of our total revenue, compared to $34.8 million or 6.8% of revenue, in 2013. Our gross profit for the year ended 201 4 increased by 18.6%, to $317.4 million , from $267.6 million in 20 13, after increasing from $181.2 million in 2012 . Our higher gross profit for the year ended 201 4 arose primarily due to our higher level of revenue from increases across pr oducts, materials, and services. Our gross profit margin perc entage decreased to 48.6% in 2014 from 52.1% in 2013 and 51.2% in 2012, reflecting current sales mix and timing of sales, manufacturing ramp -up and transitions to new products and new product start - up costs. 31 Our total operating expenses for the year ended 2014 increased by 55.9%, to $291.1 million , from $186.7 million in 20 13 , reflecting a $72.5 million, or 50.6%, increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to increased sales and marketing expenses, higher staffing due to our expanding portfolio and growing business and increased amortization expense . The increase also reflected a $31.9 million, or 73.4%, increase in research and development expenses related to our portfolio expansion, new products developments, and the addition of the engineering team in Wilsonville, Oregon. Our operating income decreased by $54.6 million to $26.3 million in 2014, compared to operating income of $80.9 million in 20 13 and $60.6 million in 2012. This was primarily due to lower gross profit margin and higher operating expenses as discussed in more detail below . Our net income for 201 4 included $ 73.9 million of non-cash expenses, which primarily consisted o f depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation , compared to $ 51.4 million of non-cash expenses in 201 3, which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization , stock-based compensation and a loss on convertible notes. The increase in non-cash expenses is primarily due to increased amortization from acquired intangibles and an increase in stock-based compensation . A number of actions or events occurred in 201 4 that affected our liquidity and our balance sheet including the following: Our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents decreased by $21.4 million to $284.9 million at December 31, 201 4 from $306.3 million at December 31, 20 13 . Our cash included $299.7 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock, offset by $345.4 million of cash paid for acquisitions. Cash at December 31, 2013 included $272.1 million of net proceeds from a public equity offering, partially offset by $162.3 million of cash paid for acquisitions. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below. During 201 4 , we used $ 345.4 million of cash to acquire ten businesses to augment our Quickparts, healthcare, metal, materials, and consumer products and services. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow from investing activities. below. O ur working capital increased by $15.8 million from $416.4 million at December 31, 20 13 to $432.2 million at December 31, 201 4 . See Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital below. Among major components of working capital, accounts receivab le, net of allowances, increased by $ 56.0 million from December 31, 20 13 to December 31, 201 4, primarily reflecting higher revenue from an increased portion of revenue categories sold on credit terms. Inventory at December 31, 20 14, net of reserves, was $ 30.8 million higher than its December 31, 20 13 level, primarily reflecting timing of orders and delivery of finished goods print materials and raw materials, which are ordered in large quantities. Accounts payable increased by $23. 5 million primarily reflecting timing of orders and payments to vendors associated with inventory and printer assembly. Results of Operations for 2014, 2013 and 2012 Table 1 below sets forth revenue and percentage of revenue by class of product and service. Table 1 (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Products $ 283,339 43.3 % $ 227,627 44.3 % $ 126,798 35.8 % Materials 158,859 24.3 128,405 25.0 103,182 29.2 Services 211,454 32.4 157,368 30.7 123,653 35.0 Totals $ 653,652 100.0 % $ 513,400 100.0 % $ 353,633 100.0 % Consolidated revenue On a consolidated basis, revenue for the year ended 2014 increased by $140.3 million, or 27.3%, compared to 2013 , led by increased sales of products and aided by increased sales of materials and services as discussed in more detail below. 32 At December 31, 2014 our backlog was approximately $46.5 million, compared to $28.6 million at December 31, 2013 and $11.4 million at December 31, 2012. Production and delivery of our printers is generally not characterized by long lead times, backlog is more dependent on timing of customers requested delivery. In addition, Quickparts services lead time and backlog depends on whether orders are for rapid prototyping or longer-range production runs. The December 31, 2014 backlog included a portion from each of our revenue categories, including $16.1 million of printer sales driven by demand for our design and manufacturing printers . The December 31, 2013 backlog included a portion from each of our revenue categories, but primarily consisted of $17.2 million of printer sales driven by de mand for advanced manufacturing. The December 31, 2012 backlog included a portion from each of our revenue categories, including printer sales of $3.2 million. The backlog at December 31, 201 4 includ es $ 13.4 million of Quickparts orders , compared to $8.4 million at December 31, 2013 and $5.9 million at December 31, 2012 . Revenue by class of product and service 2014 compared to 2013 Table 2 sets forth the change in revenue by class of product and service for 20 14 compared to 20 13. Table 2 (Dollars in thousands) Products Materials Services Total 2013 Revenue $ 227,627 44.3 % $ 128,405 25.0 % $ 157,368 30.7 % $ 513,400 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume Core 39,053 17.2 24,778 19.3 40,726 25.9 104,557 20.4 New 18,588 8.2 8,053 6.3 13,474 8.6 40,115 7.8 Price/Mix (494) (0.2) (1,836) (1.4) (2,330) (0.5) Foreign currency translation (1,435) (0.6) (541) (0.4) (114) (0.1) (2,090) (0.4) Net change 55,712 24.6 30,454 23.8 54,086 34.4 140,252 27.3 2014 Revenue $ 283,339 43.3 % $ 158,859 24.3 % $ 211,454 32.4 % $ 653,652 100.0 % We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. The $55.7 million increase in revenue from products compared to 2013 is driven by increased demand for design and manufacturing printers and added healthcare products. Certain resellers may purchase stock inventory in the ordinary course of business . For the years ended 2014 and 2013 , we estimate that revenue related to reseller inven tory amounted to approximately 2% of total revenue, which was impacted by timing of sales, expansion of our reseller channel and the recent shift from a partially direct sales model to the reseller channel selling a majority of our products , which expanded the volume of transactions through the channel. In addition to printers, the products category includes software products, perceptual and haptic devices, Vidar digitizers and Simbionix simulators. S oftware revenue contributed $20.1 million and $20.6 million of products revenue in 2014 and 2013 , respectively . Due to the relatively high price of certain professional printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced professional printer sales in any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. The $30.5 million increase in revenue from materials was aided by the improvement in sales of 3D printers and the increased utilization of printers installed over past periods . Sales of integ rated materials increased 28.5% and represented 73.3% of total materials revenue for the year ended 2014, compared to 70.6% for 2013 . The $54.1 million increase in service revenue primarily reflects the addition of Medical Modeling and Simbionix, coupled with growing Quickparts, consumer and software services . Service revenu e from Quickparts increased 21.1% to $122.4 million, or 57.9 % of total service revenue, for 2014, compared to $101.1 million, or 64.2 %, of total service revenue in the 2013 period. Software services contribu ted $15.2 million of revenue in 2014 compared to $8.2 milli on in 2013 . 33 In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Managements Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically rela ted to changes in unit volume. Among these changes are changes in the product mix of our materials and our printers as the trend toward smaller, lower-priced printers has continued and the influence of new printers and materials on our operating results has grown. 2013 compared to 2012 Table 3 sets forth the change in revenue by class of product and service for 20 13 compared to 20 12. Table 3 (Dollars in thousands) Products Materials Services Total 2012 Revenue $ 126,798 35.8 % $ 103,182 29.2 % $ 123,653 35.0 % $ 353,633 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume Core 409,370 322.9 38,839 37.6 27,976 22.6 476,185 134.7 New 89,574 70.6 4,546 4.4 5,430 4.4 99,550 28.2 Price/Mix (397,719) (313.7) (16,793) (16.3) (414,512) (117.2) Foreign currency translation (396) (0.3) (1,369) (1.3) 309 0.2 (1,456) (0.5) Net change 100,829 79.5 25,223 24.4 33,715 27.2 159,767 45.2 2013 Revenue $ 227,627 44.3 % $ 128,405 25.0 % $ 157,368 30.7 % $ 513,400 100.0 % On a consolidated basis, revenue for the year ended 2013 increased by $159.8 million, or 45.2%, compared to 2012, primarily due to increased sales of printers, coupled with acquired software revenue. The $100.8 million increase in revenue from products compared to the year ended 2012 is primarily due to increased printer unit sale s volume for the year ended 2013 , driven by increased demand for consumer and professional printers. In addition to printers, the products category includes software products , perceptual and haptic devices and Vidar digitizers . S oftware products contributed revenue of $20.6 million and $4.6 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The $25.2 million increase in revenue from materials was aide d by the improvement in sales of 3D printers and the increased utilization of print ers installed over past periods . Sales of integrated materials increased 40.2% and represented 70.6% of total materials revenue for the year ended 2013, compared to 62.6% for 2012. The increase in service revenue p rimarily reflects revenue from Quickparts , coupled with the addition of software revenue. Service revenue from Quickparts was $101.1 million, or 64.2% of total service revenue, for the year ended 2013, compared to $79.2 million, or 64.1% of total service revenue for 2012. The addition of software services in 2013 contri buted $8.2 million of revenue for the year. For the fourth quarter of 2013, revenue from Quickparts was $28.4 million, compared to $21.0 millio n in the fourth quarter of 2012. Revenue by geographic region 20 14 compared to 20 13 All geographic region s experienced higher level s of revenue in 20 14 compared to 20 13 . Table 4 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic area for 20 14 compared to 20 13 : 34 Table 4 (Dollars in thousands) Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total 2013 Revenue $ 284,752 55.4 % $ 133,781 26.1 % $ 94,867 18.5 % $ 513,400 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume 51,791 18.2 57,067 42.7 35,814 37.8 144,672 28.2 Price/Mix (2,534) (0.9) 3,517 2.6 (3,313) (3.5) (2,330) (0.5) Foreign currency translation (84) 0.0 1,722 1.3 (3,728) (3.9) (2,090) (0.4) Net change 49,173 17.3 62,306 46.6 28,773 30.4 140,252 27.3 2014 Revenue $ 333,925 51.1 % $ 196,087 30.0 % $ 123,640 18.9 % $ 653,652 100.0 % Revenue from operations in the Americas for the year ended 2014 increased by $49.1 million , or 17.3%, to $333.9 million from $284.8 million in 20 13 . This in crease was due primarily to higher volume , partially offset by the un favorable combined effect of price and mix. Revenue from operations outside the Americas for the year ended 2014 increased by $91.1 million , or 39.8%, to $319.7 million from $228.6 million in 20 13 and comprised 48.9% of consolidated revenue in 20 14 compared to 44.5 % in 20 13. The increase in revenue from operations outside the U.S. , excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was 41.5% for the year ended 2014 compared to 46.4% in 20 13 . Revenue from EMEA operations increased by $62.3 million , or 46.6%, to $196.1 million in 20 14 from $133.8 million in 20 13 . This increase was due primarily to higher volume and favorable co mbined effect of price and mix and favorable impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue from Asia Pacific operations increased by $28.7 million , or 30.4%, to $123.6 million in 20 14 from $94.9 million in 20 13 . This in crease was due primarily to higher volume , partially offset by the un favorable combined effect of price and mix and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. 20 13 compared to 20 12 All geographic regions experienced higher levels of revenue in 2013 compared to 2012. Table 5 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic area for 20 13 compared to 20 12. Table 5 (Dollars in thousands) Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total 2012 Revenue $ 196,414 55.5 % $ 100,687 28.5 % $ 56,532 16.0 % $ 353,633 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume 183,799 93.6 212,287 210.8 179,649 317.8 575,735 162.8 Price/Mix (95,461) (48.6) (182,048) (180.8) (137,003) (242.3) (414,512) (117.2) Foreign currency translation 2,855 2.8 (4,311) (7.6) (1,456) (0.4) Net change 88,338 45.0 33,094 32.8 38,335 67.9 159,767 45.2 2013 Revenue $ 284,752 55.4 % $ 133,781 26.1 % $ 94,867 18.5 % $ 513,400 100.0 % As shown in Table 5: Revenue from operations in the Americas for the year ended 2013 increased by $88.4 million, or 45.0%, to $284.8 million from $196.4 million in 2012. This increase was due primarily to higher volume, partially offset by the unfavorable combined effect of price and mix. Revenue from operations outside the U.S for the year ended 2013 increased by $71.4 million, or 45.4%, to $228.6 million from $157.2 million in 2012 and comprised 44.5% of consolidated revenue in 2013 compared to 44.5% in 2012. The increase in revenue from operations outside the U.S. , excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was 46.4% for the year ended 2013 compared to 45.0% in 2012. 35 Revenue from E MEA operations increased by $33.1 million, or 32.8%, to $133.8 million in 2013 from $100.7 million in 2012. This increase was due primarily to higher volume, partially offset by the unfavorable combined effect of price and mix. Revenue from Asia Pacific operations increased by $38.4 million, or 67.9%, to $94.9 million in 2013 from $56.5 million in 2012. This increase was due primarily to higher volume, partially offset by the unfavorable combined effect of price and mix. Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 6 sets forth gross profit and gross profit margin s for our products and services. Table 6 Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in thousands) Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin Products $ 101,681 35.9 % $ 101,838 44.7 % $ 54,276 42.8 % Materials 116,526 73.4 94,581 73.7 70,418 68.2 Services 99,227 46.9 71,175 45.2 56,502 45.7 Total $ 317,434 48.6 % $ 267,594 52.1 % $ 181,196 51.2 % On a consolidated basis, gross profit for the year ended 20 14 increased by $49.8 million , or 18.6%, to $317.4 million compared to $267.6 million and $181.2 million for 20 13 and 2012, respectively. Gross profit margin for the year ended 2014 decreased 3.5 percentage points, from 52.1% in 2013 to 48.6% in 2014. The lower gross profit margin reflects a change in revenue mix with a higher portion of revenue from lower margin products, both overall and within categories, as well as availability of new products and new product startup costs. Products gross profit was $101.7 million for the year ended 20 14 compared to $101.8 million in 20 13 and the gross profit margin decreased by 8.8 percentage points in 20 14 to 35.9 %. Despite the addition of higher margin healthcare products and the contribution of software, gross profit margin decreased due to sales mix coupled with manufacturing expansion and residual new product start-up costs. Gross profit for materials increased by 23.2% to $116.5 million in 2014 and the gross profit margin decreased 0.3 percentage points to 73.4% from 73.7 % in 20 13, primarily due to the mix of ma terials sold during the year. Gross profit for services increased by 39.4% to $99.2 million compared to $71.2 million in 20 13 , while the gross profit margin increased 1.7 percentage points to 46.9%. The increase in gross profit margin for services was primarily due to the addition of higher margin healthcare servic es and an increase in Quickparts gross profit margin , to 43.5% for the year ended 2014, compared to 42.9% in 2013. Operating expenses As shown in the table below , total operating expenses increased by $104.4 million , or 55.9%, to $291.1 million for the year ended 2014, after increasing to $186.7 million for 20 13 from $120.6 million for 2012, and increased to 44.5% of revenue compared to 36.4% and 34.1% in 2013 and 2012, respectively. This increase consists of $72.5 million of higher selling, general and administrative expenses and $31.9 million of higher research and development expenses, both of which are discussed below. Table 7 Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in thousands) Amount % Revenue Amount % Revenue Amount % Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 215,724 33.0 % $ 143,244 27.9 % $ 97,422 27.5 % Research and development expenses 75,395 11.5 43,489 8.5 23,203 6.6 Total operating expenses $ 291,119 44.5 % $ 186,733 36.4 % $ 120,625 34.1 % 36 2014 compared to 2013 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $72.5 million , or 50.6%, to $215.7 million for the year ended 20 14, from $143.2 million in 20 13 . The $ 72.5 million in crease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 20 14 was primarily due to increased sales and marketing expenses and higher staffing due to our expanding portfolio and included a $34.9 million increase in salary, benefits and contract labor costs, an $18.7 million increase in amortization expense, a $3.7 million increase in bad debt expense , a $2.5 million increase in consulting fees, a $2.1 million increase in marketing expenses, a $1.5 million increase in legal expense and a $1.2 million increase in occupancy expense. Depreciation and amortization increased $24. 8 million, to $55.2 million for the year ended 201 4, from $30.4 million in 20 13. The increase in depreciation and amortization in 201 4 and 2013 is primarily due to intangible assets from acquired businesses and additional capital equipment placed in service . Research and development expenses increased by 73.4%, to $75.4 million for the year ended 2014, from $43.5 million in 2013. The $31.9 million increase in 20 14 was primarily driven by a $17.7 million increase in R&D salary and compensation expenses primarily due to talent expansion, a $4.8 million increase in supplies and materials in support of our accelerated new product developments and investments, a $2.2 million increase in outside consulting and outsourcing services and a $1.9 million increase in depreciation and amortization. 2013 compared to 2012 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $45.8 million, or 47.0%, to $143.2 million for the year ended 2013, from $97.4 million in 2012. The $45.8 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2013 was primarily driven by support of concentrated new product launches, channel expansion and training and included a $16.8 million increase in salary, benefits and contract labor costs, a $7.9 million increase in amortization expense, a $5.0 million increase in marketing expense, a $3.4 million increase in occupancy costs, a $2.6 million increase in travel expenses, a $1.9 million increase in bad debt expense, a $1.2 million increase in operating supplies expense and a $1.0 million increase in consultant fees. Depreciation and amortization increased $9.2 million, to $30.4 million for the year ended 2013, from $21.2 million in 2012. The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2013 and 2012 is primarily due to intangible assets from acquired businesses and additional capital equipment placed in service. Research and development expenses increased by 87.4%, to $43.5 million for the year ended 2013, from $23.2 million in 2012. The $20.3 million increase in 2013 was primarily driven by an $8.1 million increase in supplies and materials in support of our accelerated new product developments and investments, a $7.2 million increase in R&D salary and compensation expenses primarily due to talent expansion and a $2.0 million increase in outside consulting and outsourcing services. Income from operations Operating income decreased $54.6 million , to $26.3 million for the year ended 201 4, compared to $80.9 million in 20 13 and $60.6 million in 20 12. The decrease in operating income was due to increased operating expenses that more than offset the increased revenue and gross profit . See Gross profit and gross profit margins and Selling, general and administrative costs above. The following table sets forth income from operations by geographic area for 2014, 2013 and 2012. Table 8 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Income (loss) from operations Americas $ (24,663) $ 43,743 $ 37,743 Germany 2,749 302 1,305 Other EMEA 9,181 7,849 5,415 Asia Pacific 40,131 30,499 16,528 Subtotal 27,398 82,393 60,991 Inter-segment elimination (1,083) (1,532) (420) Total $ 26,315 $ 80,861 $ 60,571 37 With respect to the Americas, in 2014, 2013 and 2012 , the changes in operating income by geographic area reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating income that are discussed above. T he changes in operating income in our operations outside the Americas in each of 2014, 201 3 and 20 12 resulted primarily from changes in sales volume, transfer pricing and foreign currency translation. Interest and other expenses, net Interest and other expenses, n et , which consist ed primarily of foreign exchange loss , amount ed t o $8.9 million of net expense for the year ended 2014, compared to $16.9 million for 2013 and $17.3 million for 2012. For the year ended 2014, interest and other expense, net, primarily consisted of $5.7 million of foreign exchange loss, $3.2 million of other expense and $1.2 million of interest expense; partially offset by $1.3 million of interest and other income. For the year ended 2013, interest and other expense, net included $3.4 million of interest expense, including $2.7 million of interest expense related to the 5.50% senior convertible notes, $14.1 million of other expense, primarily related to loss on conversion of converti ble notes; partially offset by $1.4 million of interest and other income, including a gain that was deferred in a prior year and recognized upon settlement of a long-term note receivable, and $0.8 m illion of foreign exchange loss. Provision for income taxes We recorded a $5.4 million provision for income taxes for the year ended 2014 and a $19.9 million and $4.3 million provision for income taxes in 201 3 and 20 12 , respectively. In 201 4, this expense primarily reflects a $1.7 million U.S. tax expense and $3.7 million of tax expense in foreign jurisdictions. In 2013, this expense primarily reflects an $18.4 m illion U.S. tax expense and $1.5 million of tax expe nse in foreign jurisdictions. In 2012, this expense primarily reflects a $6.2 million expense related to the use of U.S. net operating losses against which the valuation allowance had been released during 2011; $2.8 million of tax expense in foreign jurisdictions; partially offset by a $5.4 million benefit due to the release of valuation allowances associate d with U.S. deferred tax assets . During 2014 and 2013, based upon our results of operations and expected profitability in the future, we concluded that it is more li kely than not that all our deferred tax assets will be realized. As a result, in accordance with ASC 740, no valuation allowances have been recorded for 2014 and 2013 . D uring 2012, based upon our results of operations and expected profitability in the future, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the remainder of our curre nt U.S. deferred tax assets would be realized. As a result, in accordance with ASC 740, during 2012 we reversed $5.4 million of the valuation allowance related to $12.4 million of reserves, accruals and tax credits and to $7.6 million of net operating losses for state income tax purposes. The reversal of the valuation allowance resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $5.4 million, which resulted in a benefit of $0.10 per share . In 2012 we utilized U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, which had a full valuation allowance against them, to eliminate any U.S. federal income taxes and to significantly reduce U.S state taxes. These U.S. net operating loss carryforwards which had full valuation allowances against them were recognized in full in 2012. Their use does not impact income tax expense and income tax rate in 2013 or 2014. Absent the use of these net operating loss carryforwards, income tax expense would have been $10.8 million and the income tax rate would have been 24.9% for the year ended 2012. Absent the combined impact of the use of these net operating loss carryforwards and the release of the valuation allowances in 2012, income tax expense would have been $16.2 million and the income tax rate would have been 37.3%. Our $5.4 million expense for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased from 2013 principally due to decreased U.S. income in 2014. Our $19.9 million expense for income taxes in 2013 increased from 2012 principally due to increased U.S. income in 2013 and to there being no tax benefit from utilizing net operating loss carryforwards against which valuation allo wance had been released in 2012 . For further discussion, s ee Note 2 0 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 38 Net i ncome; net income available to 3D Systems common stockholders Net income was $11.9 million, $44.1 million and $38.9 million , for the years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012 . The principal reasons for our lower net income in 201 4 , which are discussed in more detail above, were a $49.8 million decrease in gross profit and $104.4 million higher operating expenses as a result of higher sales and marketing and R&D expense in support of concentrated new product launches and channel expansion and training . The principal reasons for our higher net income in 2013 were a $159.8 million increase in revenue and an $86.4 million increase in gross profit, partially offset by $66.1 million higher operating expenses as a result of higher sales and marketing and R&D expense in support of concentrated new product launches and channel expansion and training . Net income available to common stockholders was $11.6 million for 2014, $44.1 million for 2013 and $38.9 million for 2012 . On a per share basis, our basic and diluted net income per share available to common stockholders was $0.11, $0.45 and $0.48 in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively . For the years ended 2013 and 2012, t he average outstanding diluted shares calculation excluded shares that may have be en issued upon conversion of the outstanding senior convertible notes because the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive resulting in an increase to the net earnings per share. All senior convertible notes were converted in 2014. In February 2013, we announced a three -for- two stock split, in the form of a stock dividend. Trading began on a split-adjust ed basis on February 25, 2013. For further discussion, s ee Notes 17 and 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Financial Informa t ion In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discus sed above, management believes non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share are useful to investors in evalua ting our operating performance. We use non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnin gs per share to supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis to facilitate a better understanding of the impact that several strategic acquisitions had on our financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which costs, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP financial statements as required in our public disclosures as well as reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share to our GAAP financial statements. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures which adjust net income and earnings per share are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures which adjust net income and earnings per share are adjusted for the following: Non-cash s tock-based compensation expenses . We exclude the tax-effected stock-based compensation expenses from our operating expenses primarily because they are non-cash. Amortization of intangibles . We exclude the tax-effected amortization of intangible assets from our cost of sales and operating expenses. The increase in recent periods is primarily in connection with acquisitions of businesses. 39 Acquisition and severance expenses . We exclude the tax-effected charges associated with the acquisition of businesses and the related severance expenses from our operating expenses. Non-cash interest expenses. We exclude tax-effected, non-cash interest expenses, primarily related to the amortization costs associated with our outstanding senior convertible notes, from interest and other expenses, net . Loss on convertible notes. We exclude the tax-effected, loss on conversion of convertible notes, from interest and other expenses, net. Net (gain) loss on litigation and tax settlements. We exclude the tax-effected, net gain or loss on acquisitions and litigation settlements from other expenses, net. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to GAAP Financial Measures Table 9 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share) 2014 2013 2012 GAAP net income $ 11,637 $ 44,107 $ 38,941 Cost of sales adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 281 250 193 Operating expense adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 39,193 20,448 11,259 Acquisition and severance expenses 7,994 7,057 4,982 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 32,793 13,495 4,613 Other expense adjustments: Non-cash interest expense 225 973 3,489 Loss on convertible notes 1,806 11,275 6,295 Net (gain) loss on litigation and tax settlements 2,457 (1,296) Tax effect (a) (18,810) (16,327) (610) Non-GAAP net income $ 75,119 $ 83,735 $ 67,866 Non-GAAP basic earnings per share $ 0.70 $ 0.85 $ 0.84 (a) Tax effect is calculated quarterly, based on the actual tax rate for each quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from capital markets transactions in 2014 have enabled us to continue to execute our growth strategies, including our acquisitions in 201 4 . During 201 4, we generated $51.1 million of cash from operations and utilized $345.4 m illion of cash to fund acquisitions. Operating cash flow, a key source of our liquidity, was $ 51.1 million in 201 4 , a n increase of $25.9 million, or 103.0% , as compared to $25.2 million in 201 3 . Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents decreased by $21.4 million to $284.9 million at December 31, 201 4 from $306.3 million at December 31, 201 3 and $155.9 million at December 31, 20 12 . We completed common stock offering s that resulted in $ 299.7 million , $272.1 million and $106.9 million of net proceeds in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Acquisitions constituted a $ 345.4 million use of cash in 2014 , including the completion of ten acquisitions, as compared to a $ 162.3 million use of cash in 2013 for eleven acquisitions and a $183.7 million use of cash for the completion of nine acquisitions in 2012 . Our net working capital increased by $15.8 million to $432.2 million at December 31, 201 4 from $416.4 million at December 31, 20 13 . 40 For further discussion, s ee Cash flow and L ease obligations below. We may issue additional securities from time to time as necessary to provide flexibility to execute our growth strategy . We issued approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $299.7 million in 2014 and approximately 8.6 million shares of common stock, resulting in approximately $272.1 million in 2013. We have relied upon our unrestricted cash, cash flow from operations, capital markets transactions and borrowings from financial institutions to meet our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next twelve months or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, as sets, products or technologies. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds through the sales of equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, by borrowing from financial institutions, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms accepta ble to us. Even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into a credit facility for other reasons. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value , which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality . A summary of the components of liquidity is shown below in Table 10. Table 10 December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents $ 284,862 $ 306,316 Working capital $ 432,199 $ 416,399 Stockholders equity attributable to 3D Systems Corporation $ 1,292,918 $ 932,646 Cash flow A summary of the components of cash flows is shown below in Table 1 1. Table 1 1 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Cash provided by operating activities $ 51,111 $ 25,184 $ 51,530 Cash used in investing activities (375,441) (173,757) (187,654) Cash provided by financing activities 308,582 298,696 112,640 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (5,706) 334 223 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (21,454) $ 150,457 $ (23,261) 41 Cash flow from operations 2014 compared to 2013 For the year ended December 31, 2014, we generated $ 51.1 million of net cash from operating activities. This change in cash primarily consisted of our $11.9 million net income, $73.9 million of non-cash charges that were included in our net income and $34.8 m illion of cash used in net changes in operating accounts . The principal changes in non-cash items that favorably affected operating cash flow included $ 55.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $32.8 million of stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $24.6 million deferred tax benefit . Changes in working capital that resulted in a source of cash included the following: a $23.5 million increase in accounts payable; a $16.1 million increase in accrued liabilities; a n $11.0 million increase in other operating assets and liabilities; a n $8.7 million increase in deferred revenue; and a $1.9 million increase in customer deposits. Changes in working capital that resulted in a use of cash included the following: a $ 56.0 million increase in accounts receivable , net; a $30.8 million increase in inventory; and a $9.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Accounts receivable , net increased as a result of the record revenues for 201 4 and days sales outstanding increased to 83 days in 201 4 from 79 days in 20 13 . With a greater portion of our revenue mix shifting to resellers and retailers, as part of our planned business model evolution, a larger portion of our sales are transacted on standard credit terms. The effect of this shift in our business model was exacerbated by the combined effect or the timing and concentration of orders during the last month of the quarter as a result of increasing demand, which has driven increases in both accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Inventories increased primarily due to our expanding product portfolio, acquired inventory, timing of new product launches and the timing of orders and delivery of finished goods materials and raw materials, which are purchased in large quantities. The increase in accounts payable is primarily related to the normal timing of our scheduled expense payments. 2013 compared to 2012 For the year ended December 31, 2013, we generated $25.2 million of net cash from operating activities. This change in cash primarily consisted of our $44.1 million net income, $51.4 million of non-cash charges that were included in our net income and $70.4 millio n of cash used in net changes in operating accounts. The principal changes in non-cash items that favorably affected operating cash flow included $30.4 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $11.3 million loss on conversion of convertible notes, partially offset by $9.9 million deferred tax benefit. Changes in working capital that resulted in a source of cash included the following: a $7.6 million increase in accounts payable; a $7.5 million increase in deferred revenue; and a $1.9 million increase in customer deposits. Changes in working capital that resulted in a use of cash included the following: a $43.7 million increase in accounts receivable, net; a $30.9 million increase in inventory; a $6.5 million incr ease in accrued liabilities; a $4.6 million increase in other o perating assets and liabilities; and 42 a $1.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Accounts receivable, net increased as a result of the record revenues for 2013 and days sales outstanding increased to 79 days in 2013 from 72 days in 2012. Inventories increased primarily due to the implementation of new product launches and the timing of orders and delivery of finished goods materials and raw materials, which are purchased in large quantities. Cash flow from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended 20 14 increased to $375.4 million , from $173.8 million in 20 13 . In 20 14, this consisted of $345.4 million related to acquisition s, $22.7 million of net purchase s of property and equipment, $6.6 million in minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures , our venture investment initiative, in promising enterprises that we believe will benefit from or be powered by o u r technologies, and $0.8 million of addition s to license and patent costs. See Note s 3, 5 and 6 to the Co nsolidated Financial Statements. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended 2013 decreased to $173.8 million, from $187.7 million in 2012. In 2013, this consisted of $162.3 million related to acquisitions, $7.0 million of net purchases of property and equipment, $1.6 million of additions to license and patent costs and $4.7 million in minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures, partially offset by $1.9 million of proceeds from the disposition of property and equipment. Capital expenditures were $22.7 million in 2014, $7.0 million in 2013 and $3.2 million in 2012 . Capital expenditures in 2014, 2013 and 2012 primarily consisted of expenditures for tooling and printers associated with our new product development efforts, equipment to support our Quickparts service and leasehold improvements. As discussed below, we completed thirty acquisitions during 2014, 2013 and 2012. The majority of the acquisitions have resulted in the recording of goodwill. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase price for these businesses reflects a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiples to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which we acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2014 acquisitions We acquired ten businesses in 201 4 for cash consideration of $ 345.4 million, net of cash acquired , with an additional $24.6 million of consideration paid in the form of common stock . Five of the acquisitions were related to expanding our global Quickparts custom parts services , two of the acquisitions were related to accelerating our healthcare initiative, two of the acquisitions were related to building our 3D consumer and retail products and services, and one acquisition was related to our materials business. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 2013 acquisitions We acquired eleven businesses in 2013 for cash consideration of $162.3 million, net of cash acquired, with an additional $13.1 million of consideration paid in the form of common stock. Four of the acquisitions were related to accelerating our 3D printer penetration through new products and materials, three of the acquisitions were related to building our 3D consumer and retail products and services, two of the acquisitions were related to expanding our global Quickparts custom parts services and two acquisitions were rela ted to reinventing the engineer s desktop. 201 2 acquisitions We acquired nine businesses in 2012 for cash consideration of $183.7 million, net of cash acquired, with an additional $7.7 million of consideration paid in the form of common stock. Two of the acquisitions were related to Quickparts custom parts services, three were building blocks for our consumer growth initiative, two acquisitions were related to our printers business, one was related to healthcare solutions and one was related to our 3D authoring solutions initiative. In addition, we made deferred purchase payments of $0.4 million in connection with acquisitions completed in 2011. Recent acquisition developments 43 See Notes 3 and 2 5 to the Consolidate d Financial Statements for a discussion of our recent acquisitions. Cash flow from financing activities We completed equity offerings netting $299.7 million, $272.1 million and $106.9 million of proceeds after deducting related expenses, for the years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net cash provided by financing activities increased to $308.6 million for the year ended 201 4 from $298.7 million in 20 13 . Net cash provided by financing activities in 2 012 was $112.6 million. The 2014 cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from $299.7 million of net proceeds from the common stock issuance and $7.7 million of share-based payment arrangements. The 2013 cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from the $272.1 million of net proceeds from the common stock issuance and $26.0 million of tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements. The 2012 cash provided by financing primarily resulted from the $106.9 million of net proceeds from th e common stock issuance and $4.4 million of stock-based compensation proceeds. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off balance sheet arrangements in existence at December 31, 2014. Contractual Commitments Our principal commitments at December 31, 2014 consisted of the capital lease on our Rock Hill facility, operating leases, earnouts on acquisitions and purchase obligations, which are discussed in greater detail below. Tables 12 and 13 below summarize our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014 . Table 1 2 Years Ending December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2016-2017 2018-2020 Later Years Total Capitalized lease obligations $ 1,112 $ 2,223 $ 2,238 $ 9,252 $ 14,825 Non-cancelable operating leases 10,006 15,609 10,269 7,531 43,415 Purchase obligations 56,620 56,620 Earnouts on acquisitions 185 8,970 9,155 Total $ 67,923 $ 26,802 $ 12,507 $ 16,783 $ 124,015 Debt and lease obligations Debt In November 2011, we issued $152.0 million of 5.50% senior convertible notes due December 2016. The notes were issued with an effective yield of 5.96% based upon an original issue discount at 98.0%. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, after deducting original issue discount and capitalized issuance costs of $6.6 million, amounted to $145.4 million. The net proceeds of the notes were used to fund the acquisition of Z Corp and Vidar and for general corporate purposes. During the third quarte r of 2014, the remaining $12.5 million of outstanding notes were conver ted, reflecting a loss of $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to losses of $11.3 million and $7.0 million , respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. As of December 31 , 2014, there is no outstanding balance for the n otes. In October 2014 , we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility with PNC Bank, as Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders. The agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, the Company may, at its option and subject to customary conditions, request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility b y an additional $75.0 million. As of December 31, 2014, there is no outstanding balance on the credit facility. Leases Our capitalized lease obligations include lease agreements that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill facility and lease agreements assumed in the LayerWise acquisition. 44 In accordance with ASC 840 , Leases, we are considered an o wner of the properties, therefore , we have recorded $ 9.4 million and $7.5 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, as building in our c onsolidated balance s heet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the c onsolidated b alance s heet. See Note 12 to the C onsolidated F inancial S tatements . Our outstanding capitalized lease obligations at December 3 1 , 20 14 and December 31, 20 13 were as follows: Table 13 (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 Capitalized lease obligations: Current portion of capitalized lease obligations $ 529 $ 187 Capitalized lease obligations, long term portion 8,905 7,277 Total capitalized lease obligations $ 9,434 $ 7,464 Capitalized lease obligations of $9.4 million at December 31, 2014 increased from $7.5 million at December 31, 2013 due to the acquired $2.3 million of capital lease obligations in connection with the LayerWise acquisition in the third quarter of 2014 , primarily consisting of sale and leasebacks on laser-melting machines internally produced by LayerWise and used in their business , partially offset by scheduled payments of principal on capital lease installments. We lease certain other facilities under non-cancelable operating leases expiring through 2024 . The leases are generally on a net-rent basis, under which we pay taxes, maintenance and insurance. We expect leases that expire to be renewed or replaced by leases on other properties . Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 20 12 was $10.4 million, $6.9 million and $5.0 million , r espectively . Other contractual commitments The Company has supply commitments for printer assemblies that total $56.6 million and $41.1 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesse s can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities rec orded for these earnouts is $9.2 million at December 31, 2014 compared to $5.6 million at December 31, 2013 . See Note 3 for details of acquisiti ons and related commitments . The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require the Company to acquire their ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement and the Company has a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 22 . Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at December 31, 2014, performs over the relevant future periods at their forecasted earnings le vels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8.9 million to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership intere sts in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at December 31, 2014 . Indemnification In the normal course of business we periodically enter into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant. We are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, we have directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable us to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and to the policy limits. 45 We do not utilize any structured debt, special purpose or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized ) in interest and other expense , net in our C onsolidated S tatements of Income and Other Comprehensive Income . Changes in the fair value of derivatives are re corded in interest and other expense, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Other Comprehensive Income. Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our C onsolidated B alance S heets. The total impact of foreign currency related items on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income was a loss of $5.7 million in 2014, a loss of $0.8 million in 2013, and a gain of $0. 1 million in 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates The discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition set forth in this Form 10-K is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make critical accounting estimates that directly impact our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. Critical accounting estimates are estimates that meet two criteria: The estimates require that we make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimates are made; and There exist different estimates that could reasonably be used in the current period, or changes in the estimates used are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, both of which would have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition, the allowance for doubtful accounts, income taxes, inventories, goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets and contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following paragraphs discuss the items that we believe are the critical accounting policies most affected by significant management estimates and judgments. Management has discussed and periodically reviews these critical accounting policies, the basis for their underlying assumptions and estimates and the nature of our related disclosures herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Revenue recognition Net revenue is derived primarily from the sale of products and services. The following revenue recognition policies define the manner in which we account for sales transactions. 46 We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of a sale arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services are rendered, the sales price or fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. We sell our products through our direct sales force and through authorized resellers. We recognize revenue on sales to resellers at the time of sale when the reseller has economic substance apart from us, and we have completed our obligations related to the sale . We enter into sales arrangements that may provide for multiple deliverables to a customer. Sales of printers may include ancillary equipment, print materials, warranty on the equipment, training and installation. We identify all goods and/or services that are to be delivered separately under a sales arrangement and allocate revenue to each deliverable based on either vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) or if VSOE is not determinable then we use best estimated selling price (BESP) of each deliverable. We establish VSOE of selling price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the deliverable was sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. We consider multiple factors including, but not limited to, market conditions, geographies, competitive landscape, and entity-specific factors such as internal costs, gross margin objectives and pricing practices when estimating BESP. Consideration in a multiple element arrangement is then allocated to the elements on a relative sales value basis using either VSOE or BESP for all the elements. We also evaluate the impact of undelivered items on the functionality of delivered items for each sales transaction and, where appropriate, defer revenue on delivered items when that functionality has been affected. Functionality is determined to be met if the delivered products or services represent a separate earnings process . Hardware In general, revenues are separated between printers and other products, print materials, training services, maintenance services and installation services. The allocated revenue for each deliverable is then recognized based on relative fair values of the components of the sale, consistent within the scope of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 Revenue Recognition . Under our standard terms and conditions of sale, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer at the time product is shipped to the customer and revenue is recognized accordingly, unless customer acceptance is uncertain or significant obligations remain. We defer the estimated revenue associated with post-sale obligations that are not essential to the functionality of the delivered items, and recognize revenue in the future as the conditions for revenue recognition are met. Software We also market and sell software tools that enable our customers to capture and customize content using our printers, as well as reverse engineering and inspection software. The software does not require significant modification or customization. We apply the guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition (ASC 985) in recognizing revenue when software is more than incidental to the product or service as a whole based on fair value using vendor-specific objective evidence. Revenue from perpetual software licenses is recognized either upon delivery of the product or delivery of a key code which allows the customer to access the software. In instances where software access is provided for a trial period, revenue is not recognized until the customer has purchased the software at the expiration of the trial period. We use the residual method to allocate revenue to software licenses at the inception of the license term when VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, such as maintenance, exists and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. In instances in which customers purchase post sale support, it is considered a separate element from the software and is deferred at the time of sale and subsequently amortized in future periods . We also sell equipment with embedded software to our customers. The embedded software is not sold separately, it is not a significant focus of the marketing effort and we do not provide post-contract customer support specific to the software or incur significant costs that are within the scope of ASC 985. Additionally, the functionality that the software provides is marketed as part of the overall product. The software embedded in the equipment is incidental to the equipment as a whole such that ASC 985 is not applicable. Sales of these products are recognized in accordance with ASC 605.25, Multiple-Element Arrangements. 47 Services Printers include a warranty under which we provide maintenance for periods up to one year, as well as training, installation and non-contract maintenance services. We defer this portion of the revenue at the time of sale based on the relative fair value of these services. Deferred revenue is recognized ratably according to the term of the warranty. Costs associated with our obligations during the warranty period are expensed as incurred. After the initial warranty period, we offer these customers optional maintenance contracts. Deferred maintenance revenue is recognized ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the period of the contract , and costs ass ociated with these contracts are recognized as incurred. Revenue from training, installation and non-contract maintenance services is recognized at the time of performance . Quickparts sales are included within services revenue and revenue is recognized upon shipment or delivery of the parts, based on the terms of the sales arrangement. Terms of sale Shipping and handling costs billed to customers for equipment sales and sales of print materials are included in product revenue in the consolidated statements of income and other comprehensive income. Costs we incur associated with shipping and handling are included in product cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income and other comprehensive income. Credit is extended, and creditworthiness is determined, based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition. New customers are generally required to complete a credit application and provide references and bank information to facilitate an analysis of creditworthiness. Customers with a favorable profile may receive credit terms that differ from our general credit terms. Creditworthiness is considered, among other things, in evaluating our relationship with customers with past due balances. Our terms of sale generally require payment within 30 to 60 days after shipment of a product, although we also recognize that longer payment periods are customary in some countries where we transact business. To reduce credit risk in connection with printer sales, we may, depending upon the circumstances, require significant deposits prior to shipment and may retain a security interest in a system sold until fully paid. In some circumstances, we may require payment in full for our products prior to shipment and may require international customers to furnish letters of credit. For maintenance services, we either bill customers on a time-and-materials basis or sell customers service agreements that are recorded as deferred revenue and provide for payment in advance on either an annual or other periodic basis . Allowance for doubtful accounts In evaluating the collectability of our accounts receivable, we assess a number of factors, including a specific customers ability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as whether a customer declares bankruptcy. Other factors include the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience. Based on these assessments, we record a reserve for specific customers as well as a general reserve based on our historical experience for bad debts. If circumstances related to specific customers change, or economic conditions deteriorate such that our past collection experience is no longer relevant, our estimate of the recoverability of our accounts receivable could be further reduced from the levels provided for in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our estimate for the allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, we evaluate specific accounts where we have information that the customer may have an inability to meet their financial obligations (for example, aging over 90 days past due or bankruptcy). In these cases, we use our judgment, based on available facts and circumstances, and record a specific reserve for that customer against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount that is expected to be collected. These specific reserves are re - evaluated and adjusted as additional information is received that impacts the amount reserved. Second, a general reserve is established for all customers based on historical collection and write-off experience. Our estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts for financing receivables is determined by evaluating specific accounts for which the borrower is past due mo re than 90 days, or for which we have information that the borrower may be unable to meet its financial obligations (for example, bankruptcy). In these cases, we use judgment, based on the available facts and circumstances, and record a specific reserve for that borrower against amounts due to reduce the outstanding receivable balance to the amount that is expected to be collected. If there are any specific reserves, they are re-evaluated and adjusted as additional information is received that impacts the amount reserved. 48 We also provide an allowance account for returns and discounts. This allowance is evaluated on a specific account basis. In addition, we provide a general reserve for all customers that have not been specifically identified based on historical exp erience. Our ba d debt expense increased to $8.7 million in 2014 from $5.0 million in 2013 and $3.0 million in 2012 . The higher exp ense in 2014 was due to higher receivables related to increased revenue. Our allowance for doubtful accounts increased to $10.3 million, or 6.1% of outstanding accounts receivable, at December 31, 2014 from $8.1 million , or 6.2% of outstanding accounts receivable, at December 31, 201 3. Our accounts receivable over 90 days past due increased to 16.7% in 2014 from 9.1% in 2013. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is a critical accounting estimate because it is susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur and because the impact of recognizing additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. Income taxes We and our domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries file income tax returns in their respective local jurisdictions. We provide for income taxes on those portions of our foreign subsidiaries accumulated earnings that we believe are not reinvested indefinitely in their business es . We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax benefit carryforwards. Deferred income tax liabilities and assets at the end of each period are determined using enacted tax rates. We record deferred income tax assets arising from temporary differences between recorded net income and taxable net income when and if we believe that future earnings will be suffici ent to realize the tax benefit. We provide a valuation allowance for those jurisdictions and on those deferred tax assets where the expiration date of tax benefit carryforwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely. Under the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes, (ASC 740) a valuation allowance is required to be established or maintained when, based on currently available information and other factors, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred income tax asset will not be realized. ASC 740 provides that an important factor in determining whether a deferred income tax asset will be realized is whether there has been sufficient income in recent years and whether sufficient income is expected in future years in order to utilize the deferred income tax asset. We believe that our estimate of deferred income tax assets and our maintenance of a valuation allowance against such assets are critical accounting estimates because they are subject to, among other things, an estimate of future taxable income in the U.S. and in other non-U.S. tax jurisdictions, which are susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur, and because the impact of our valuation allowance may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. The determination of our income tax provision is complex because we have operations in numerous tax jurisdictions outside the U.S. that are subject to certain risks that ordinarily would not be expected in the U.S. Tax regimes in certain jurisdictions are subject to significant changes, which may be applied on a retroactive basis. If this were to occur, our tax expense could be materially different than the amounts reported. We periodically estimate the probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and our informed judgment. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretation of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we transact business. The judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, regulations. Income tax expense is adjusted in the period in which these events occur, and these adjustments are included in our C onsolidated S tatements of Income and Other Comprehensive Income . If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate may increase or decrease in any period. 49 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined predomina n tly on the first-in, first-out method. Reserves for inventories are provided based on historical experience and current product demand. Our inventory reserve was $ 6.7 million at December 31, 20 14, compared with $4.3 million at December 31, 2013 . We evaluate the adequacy of these reserves quarterly. Our determination of the allowance for inventory reserves is subject to change because it is based on managements current estimates of required reserves and potential adjustments. We believe that the allowance for inventory obsolescence is a critical accounting estimate because it is susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur and because the impact of recognizing additional obsolescence reserves may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets We evaluate long-lived assets other than goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. If the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) from the use of an asset are less than the carrying value, a write-down would be recorded to reduce the related asset to its estimated fair value. The annual impairment testing required by ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other, (ASC 350) requires us to use our judgment and could require us to write down the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in future periods. As required by ASC 350 , we have allocated goodwill to identifiable geographic reporting units, which are tested for impairment using a two-step process detailed in that statement. See Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The first step requires comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with our carrying amount, including goodwill. If that fair value exceeds the carrying amount, the second step of the process is not required to be performed and no impairment charge is required to be recorded. If that fair value does not exceed th e carrying amount, we must perform the second step, which requires an allocation of the fair value of the reporting unit to all assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a purchase business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price. The goodwill resulting from that purchase price allocation is then compared to the carrying amount with any excess recorded as an i mpairment charge. Goodwill set forth on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 20 14 arose from acquisitions carried out in 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 , and in years prior to 2007 . G oodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 2007 was allocated to geographic reporting units based on the percentage of SLS printers then installed by geographic area. Goodwill arising from acquisitions since 2009 was allocated to geographic reporting units based on geographic dispersion of the acquired companies sales or capitalization at the time of their acquisition. Pursuant to the requirements of ASC 350 , we are required to perform a valuation of each of our three geographic reporting units annually, or upon significant changes in our business environment. We conducted our annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2014. To determine the fair value of each reporting unit we utilized discounted cash flows, using five years of projected unleveraged free cash flows and terminal EBITDA earnings multiples. The discount rates used for the analysis reflected a weighted average cost of capital based on industry and capital structure adjusted for equity risk premiums and size risk premiums based on market capitalization. The discounted cash flow valuation uses projections of future cash flows and includes assumptions concerning future operating performance and economic conditions and may differ from actual future cash flows. We also considered the current trading multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies and the historical pricing multiples for comparable merger and acquisition transactions that have occurred in the industry. Under each fair value measurement methodology considered, the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value; a ccordingly, no goodwill impairment adjustments were recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet . The control premium that a third party would be willing to pay to obtain a controlling interest in 3D Systems Corporation was considered when determining fair value. In addition, factors such as the performance of competitors were also considered. Management concluded that there was a reasonable basis for the excess of the estimated fair value of the geographic reporting units over its market capitalization. 50 The estimated fair value of the three geographic reporting units incorporated judgment and the use of estimates by management. Potential factors requiring assessment include a further or sustained decline in our stock price, variance in results of operations from projections, and additional acquisition transactions in the industry that reflect a lower control premium. Any of these factors may cause us to re-evaluate goodwill during any quarter throughout the year. If an impairment charge was to be taken for goodwill it would be a non-cash charge and would not impact our cash position or cash flows; however such a charge could have a material impact to equity and the Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income. There was no goodwill impairment for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 or 2012. We will evaluate the fair value of long-lived assets in accordance with ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment if events transpire to indicate potential impairment. No impairment loss was recorded for the periods presented. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit, intangible asset or a long-lived asset is judgmental and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Management bases its fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes are reasonable but are uncertain and subject to changes in market conditions. Stock-based compensation ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, (ASC 718) requires the recognition of the fair value of stock-based compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the awards expected to vest and recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period of the award. See Note 14 to the Conso lidated Financial Statements. Contingencies We account for contingencies in accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies (ASC 450). ASC 450 requires that we record an estimated loss from a loss contingency when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for contingencies such as legal matters requires us to use our judgment. Non-GAAP Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management use s certain non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share , in assess ing our operating performance. Management believe s th ese non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share serve as useful measures in evaluating the overall performance of our business. Management use s these non-GAAP financial measures to supplement our C onsolidated F inancial S tatements presented on a GAAP basis to facilitate a better understanding of the impact that several significant, strategic acquisitions had on our ongoing financial results and other non-cash factors . These n on-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which c osts, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures as required in our public disclosures and reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to our GAAP financial statements. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial performance or liquidity measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 51 As discussed in detail above, we report non-GAAP measures which adjust both net income and earnings per share by excluding the impact of acquisition and severance expenses, intangible amortization, non-cash interest expense, non-cash stock-based compensation, loss on convertible notes and net gain or l oss on litigation and tax settl ements. We provide the required reconciliation of GAAP net income and earnings per share to non-GAAP adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share. See Other Financial Information above . Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our C onsolidated F inancial S tatements included in this report for recently issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and expected impact to our C onsolidated F inancial S tatements upon adoption.