Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as believes, belief, expects, may, will, estimates, intends, anticipates, or plans or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon managements beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business General 3D Systems Corporation (3D Systems or the Company or we, "our" or us) markets our products and services through subsidiaries in North America and South America (collectively referred to as Americas), Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as EMEA) and Asia Pacific and Oceania (collectively referred to as APAC). We provide comprehensive 3D printing and digital manufacturing solutions, including 3D printers for plastics and metals, materials, software, and services, including maintenance, advanced manufacturing and applications engineering. Our solutions support advanced applications in two key industry verticals: Healthcare Solutions (which includes dental, medical devices, personalized health services and regenerative medicine) and Industrial Solutions (which includes aerospace, defense, transportation and general manufacturing). We have over 35 years of experience and expertise, which have proven vital to our development of an ecosystem and end-to-end digital workflow solutions that enable customers to optimize product designs, transform workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models. Business Strategy Accelerating Additive Manufacturing Adoption We partner with customers to enable them to adopt and scale additive manufacturing in their production environments. We believe that our additive manufacturing capabilities can help customers solve a number of design and manufacturing challenges such as improved lead times, enhanced design freedom, part consolidation and the ability for mass customization. We believe that we have both the scale and the breadth of technologies, encompassing hardware platforms, materials and software, that our customers require for the successful implementation of additive manufacturing into their design and manufacturing processes. Using a strong application focus in each of our two business segments, our Applications Innovation Group integrates our printer hardware, materials, software and professional and technical services in unique combinations to solve a customers product need. Once complete, we can scale the process for the customer to a certain production level through our Advanced Manufacturing solutions, and, with increasing demand, we can enable a customer to continue scaling to high volumes within their own production facilities.This transfer of the workflow involves providing the printing systems, materials and software, along with the process definition and other technical expertise, that enables a seamless transfer of capability to the manufacturer. We expect the result of this approach to drive recurring revenue streams as customers adopt additive manufacturing solutions and consume materials to produce parts, utilize software to manage the print process and manufacturing operations, and make use of our service offerings for application development, maintenance and upgrades. Our proficiency in providing industry focused application and solution development for customers includes a number of internal assets and capabilities, including: 4 a.A full range of additive manufacturing hardware technologies and materials to address needs in metals and plastics (including biocompatible materials for medical use), wax and bioprinting b.An Application Innovation Group that includes industry and technology application experts, customer innovation and advanced manufacturing centers and post-sale service and support c.A software suite that enables end-to-end additive manufacturing including design, simulation, process management and manufacturing execution d.Scale that includes significant and diverse experience in production parts and applications combined with a global reach to service our customers worldwide Investing in Regenerative Medicine As an early and continuing innovator in additive manufacturing, we have significant experience in bringing this technology to new markets. Within our Healthcare Solutions segment, a portion of our business focuses on opportunities for additive manufacturing to be applied to regenerative medicine. To date, our efforts in the area of regenerative medicine have consisted primarily of pre-commercial bio-technology research and development ("R&D") in the areas described below. Each year, end-stage organ failure kills millions of people, and the supply of donated organs is insufficient to meet the needs of patients seeking transplantation. Accordingly, our first area of focus is the use of additive manufacturing for human organ transplantation. In 2017, we entered into an arrangement that combined our 3D printing expertise and capabilities in human tissue engineering with the regenerative medicine and biotechnology expertise of a key strategic partner, with a long-term goal of developing the capability to 3D print lungs that will allow patients with end-stage lung disease to receive transplants that will enable them to enjoy long and active lives. In 2021, this program was expanded to also focus on developing the capability to print scaffolds for livers and kidneys, for which research continued through the start of 2024. Beginning in the first quarter of 2024, due to changes to our arrangement with and funding from our key strategic partner, the Companys continuing organ program returned to focusing on developing the capability to print human lung scaffolds, for which the related R&D efforts will continue to be primarily funded by our key strategic partner. Given the loss of funding for research on kidneys and liver from our key strategic partner, those programs were discontinued during the first quarter of 2024. Our second area of focus seeks to utilize our bio-printing capabilities to design and manufacture 3D-printed vascularized organs-on-chips for use in drug development by pharmaceutical industry customers. Currently, drug development is an expensive and time-consuming process, and many drug therapies that appear promising during pre-clinical trials fail during human clinical trials. We believe that organs-on-chips can accelerate the drug development process and reduce the cost of pre-clinical drug testing, as well as reduce the pharmaceutical industrys reliance on animal testing. During 2024, our wholly-owned biotech company, Systemic Bio, continued its R&D work in this area with pharmaceutical industry customers. We are engaged in a review of strategic alternatives for Systemic Bio. During this review we plan to continue to provide internal funding to support Systemic Bio, including for product development and customer acquisition activities. Products We offer our customers a comprehensive range of 3D printers, materials, software, and digital design tools. 3D Printers and Materials Our 3D printers transform digital data input generated by 3D design software, Computer Aided Design (CAD) software or other 3D design tools, into printed parts using several unique print engines that employ proprietary, additive layer by layer building processes with a variety of materials. As part of our solutions-oriented strategy, we offer a broad range of 3D printing technologies including Stereolithography (SLA), Selective Laser Sintering, Direct Metal Printing, MultiJet Printing, ColorJet Printing, polymer extrusion, and extrusion and SLA based bioprinting. Our printers utilize a wide range of materials, the majority of which are proprietary materials that we develop, blend, and market. Our comprehensive range of materials includes plastic, nylon, metal, composite, elastomeric, wax, polymeric dental materials and biocompatible materials. We augment and complement our portfolio of engineered materials with materials that we purchase or develop with third parties under private label and distribution arrangements. We work closely with our customers to optimize the performance of our materials in their applications. Our expertise in materials science and formulation, combined with our processes, software and equipment, enables us to provide unique solutions and help our customers select the material that best meets their needs with optimal cost and performance results. 5 As part of our solutions approach, our currently offered printers, with the exception of direct metal printers and bioprinters, have built-in intelligence to make them integrated, closed systems. For these integrated printers, we furnish materials specifically designed for use in those printers, which are packaged in smart cartridges and utilize material delivery systems. These integrated materials are designed to enhance system functionality, productivity, reliability and materials' shelf life, in addition to providing our customers with a built-in quality management system and a fully integrated workflow solution. Software and Related Products We provide digital design tools, including software, scanners and haptic devices. We offer solutions for product design, simulation, mold and die design, 3D scan-to-print, reverse engineering, production machining, metrology, inspection and manufacturing workflows. These products are designed to enable a seamless workflow for customers. We also offer proprietary software to prepare and optimize CAD data and manage the additive manufacturing processes. These software products provide automated support building and placement, build platform management, print simulation and print queue management capabilities. The outcome is the ability to improve the quality of prints, optimize design structure, shorten design to manufacturing lead time and minimize manufacturing costs. Since the acquisition of Oqton, Inc. ("Oqton") in 2021, we have also offered an intelligent, cloud-based "manufacturing operating system" ("MOS") platform to customers that need to integrate a broad range of advanced manufacturing and automation technologies, including additive manufacturing solutions, in their production workflows. Many of 3D Systems legacy stand-alone software applications are integrated into Oqtons legacy MOS, so that we can offer our customers a complete cloud-based software solution to automate and control their entire digital manufacturing process from order to delivery. In December 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of its Geomagic software business to Hexagon AB for $123 million, subject to customary adjustments. The divestiture of Geomagic is expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2025, subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions. Geomagic represents only a portion of the Companys broader software business, and its products primarily consist of reverse engineering, design and inspection software. Following the sale of Geomagic, the Companys remaining software business and continued investment and development efforts will primarily focus on software solutions and platforms that accelerate the adoption of 3D printing technologies in large-scale, production application environments. These software platforms specifically include 3D Sprint, 3DXpert, which are core to the Companys metal and polymer additive manufacturing solutions, and Oqton Industrial Manufacturing OS, which helps customers move from prototyping to a repeatable and high-quality production additive manufacturing process. Through these platforms, the Company will continue to offer software solutions for design, build preparation simulation, automation of repetitive tasks, inspection, preparing and optimizing CAD and polygon data, increasingly leveraging the power of artificial intelligence and machine learning to drive efficiency, improved workflows, higher productivity, repeatability, and quality. For purposes of our accompanying consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Geomagic business that we plan to sell have been reclassified and separately reported as held for sale in our balance sheet. Consistent with the remainder of our software business, Geomagics operating results historically have been, and continue to be, included in the financial results reported for our Industrial Segment. Geomagic has not been separately reported as a discontinued operation in our accompanying consolidated financial statements, as the sale of this component of our software business does not represent a shift away from providing software products to our customers. Services Maintenance and Training Services We provide a variety of customer services, local application support and field support on a worldwide basis for our products, including installation of new printers at customers sites, maintenance agreements, periodic hardware upgrades and software updates. We also provide services to assist our customers and partners in developing new applications for our technologies to facilitate the use of our technology for specific applications, to train customers on the use of our printers and to maintain our printers at customers sites. We provide these services, spare parts and field support either directly or through a network of reseller partners. We employ customer-support sales engineers to support our worldwide customer base, and we seek to continue to strengthen and enhance our partner network and service offerings. 6 Our 3D printers are sold with a warranty period ranging from 90 days to one year. After the warranty period, we generally offer service contracts that enable our customers to continue service and maintenance coverage. These service contracts are offered with various levels of support and options, and are priced accordingly. One entitlement of our service contracts is our service engineers provide regularly scheduled preventive maintenance visits to customer sites. Additionally, we provide training to our partners to enable them to also perform these services. Another contract entitlement on select printer models is proactive remote troubleshooting capability through our 3DConnect Service IoT platform. From time to time, we also offer upgrade kits for certain of our printers that enable our existing customers to take advantage of new or enhanced printer capabilities. In some cases, we have discontinued upgrade support and maintenance agreements for certain of our older legacy printers. Advanced Manufacturing As part of our strategy to help customers adopt additive manufacturing, we offer advanced manufacturing services through facilities in the Americas and EMEA regions. These facilities supplement customer manufacturing environments by allowing them to test and ramp production using our solutions before transitioning production to their environment and also providing them with flexible manufacturing capacity on an as-needed basis. This allows us to provide application and production expertise and refine the production process as part of our solutions approach. As the process is validated and volumes ramp, customers may choose to move production to their facilities using equipment, materials, software and services that they purchase from us. These facilities operate under stringent quality systems and are also utilized by customers in regulated industries such as healthcare and aerospace and defense for sustained outsourced production of hundreds of thousands of parts per year. Software Services In addition to our software license products, we offer software maintenance and cloud-software subscriptions, which includes updates and support for our licensed software products. Our licensed software is sold with a maintenance service that generally covers a period of one year. After this initial period, we offer single and multi-year maintenance contracts that enable our customers to continue coverage. These software service contracts typically include free software updates and various levels of technical support. In addition, we offer Oqton's legacy MOS as a cloud based-manufacturing operating system designed to automate digital production workflows and to enable machine monitoring, end-to-end manufacturing visibility and production traceability. For our cloud subscription solutions, customer support and software updates are included as part of the solution. Healthcare Solutions Services As part of our precision healthcare solutions services, we provide surgical planning, modeling, prototyping and manufacturing services. We offer printing and finishing of medical and dental devices, anatomical models and surgical guides and tools, as well as modeling, design and planning services, including VSP surgical planning solutions. Global Operations We operate in the Americas, EMEA and APAC regions, and market our products and services in those areas. In maintaining operations outside the United States (the U.S.), we expose our business to risks inherent in such operations, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. Information on foreign exchange risk appears in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Part II, Item 7A,