Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as believes, belief, expects, may, will, estimates, intends, anticipates, or plans or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon managements beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business General 3D Systems Corporation (3D Systems or the Company or we or us) markets our products and services through subsidiaries in North America and South America (collectively referred to as Americas), Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as EMEA) and the Asia Pacific region (APAC). We provide comprehensive 3D printing and digital manufacturing solutions, including 3D printers for plastics and metals, materials, software, on demand manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our solutions support advanced applications in two key industry verticals: Healthcare (which includes dental, medical devices and personalized health services) and Industrial (which includes aerospace, defense, transportation and general manufacturing). Customers can use our 3D solutions to design and manufacture complex and unique parts, eliminate expensive tooling, consolidate multiple parts into a single assembly, reduce product weight, produce parts locally or in small batches and reduce lead times and time to market. A growing number of customers are shifting from prototyping applications to also using 3D printing for production. We believe this shift will be further driven by our continued advancement and innovation of 3D printing solutions that improve durability, reliability, repeatability and total cost of operations. Our Healthcare solutions capabilities include simulation; Virtual Surgical Planning (VSP )(VSP), with associated accessories, software and data visualization tools; and printing of medical and dental devices, models, and surgical guides and instruments. We have over 30 years of experience and expertise which have proven vital to our development of an ecosystem and end-to-end digital workflow solutions which enable customers to optimize product designs, transform workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models. In August 2020, we announced a new strategic focus to accelerate the adoption of additive manufacturing solutions for applications in growing markets that demand high reliability products. We focus on markets and applications where a premium is placed upon performance and reliability; with engineering/technology cultures that seek product innovation as a means of delivering value to their customers; and with processes that tend to be highly controlled. Thanks to our unique offering of hardware, software, materials and services, combined with our leadership in application knowledge, we believe we are best-positioned to provide additive manufacturing solutions for specific, high-value applications in growing markets like healthcare, transportation, aerospace and defense. We have a demonstrated capability to be successful in these markets, with our technologies and process knowledge today enabling more than a half-million production parts to be made through additive manufacturing each day. 4 To accelerate value creation for our customers, we simplified and focused our organization by realigning the Companys breadth of capabilities into two key market verticals - Healthcare and Industrial. The Healthcare and Industrial vertical teams drive application specific solutions within their market verticals and focused sub-segments. For Healthcare, these sub-segments include dental, medical devices, simulations and surgical planning. For Industrial, key sub-segments include Aerospace & Defense, Transportation & Motorsports, Energy, Semiconductor, Service Bureaus, Investment Castings, Jewelry and Consumer Durables. We work with customers as a full solution provider. In this regard, we offer an integrated set of capabilities to enable customers to adopt additive manufacturing into their prototyping or production workflows. These capabilities include a range of 3D printer hardware with multiple additive manufacturing technologies that address differing application needs. In addition, we have a portfolio of materials that are developed with varying performance characteristics to address a breadth of customer application requirements. Our software offerings are a key component of our solutions and enable customers to manage their print process and production workflows. Supporting our printer, materials and software are services capabilities including application engineers that support application development, advanced manufacturing and customer innovation centers to help customers adopt production workflows, quality and regulatory experts for specific industries, and service technicians that provide post-purchase maintenance and support. Products We offer a comprehensive range of 3D printers, materials, software, haptic design tools, 3D scanners and virtual surgical simulators. 3D Printers and Materials Our 3D printers transform digital data input generated by 3D design software, Computer Aided Design (CAD) software or other 3D design tools, into printed parts using several unique print engines that employ proprietary, additive layer by layer building processes with a variety of materials. As part of our solutions oriented strategy, we offer a broad range of 3D printing technologies including Stereolithography (SLA), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Direct Metal Printing (DMP), MultiJet Printing (MJP) and ColorJet Printing (CJP), which are discussed in more detail below. Our printers utilize a wide range of materials, the majority of which are proprietary materials that we develop, blend and market. Our comprehensive range of materials includes plastic, nylon, metal, composite, elastomeric, wax, polymeric dental materials and bio-compatible materials. We augment and complement our portfolio of engineered materials with materials that we purchase or develop with third parties under private label and distribution arrangements. We work closely with our customers to optimize the performance of our materials in their applications. Our expertise in materials science and formulation, combined with our processes, software and equipment, enables us to provide unique solutions and help our customers select the material that best meets their needs with optimal cost and performance results. As part of our solutions approach, our currently offered printers, with the exception of direct metal printers, have built-in intelligence to make them integrated, closed systems. For these integrated printers, we furnish materials specifically designed for use in those printers, which are packaged in smart cartridges and utilize material delivery systems. These integrated materials are designed to enhance system functionality, productivity, reliability and materials shelf life, in addition to providing our customers with a built-in quality management system and a fully integrated workflow solution. SLA Printers Our SLA 3D printers cure liquid resin materials with light or a laser to produce durable plastic parts with surface smoothness, high resolution, edge definition and tolerances that rival the accuracy of machined or molded plastic parts. We offer SLA printers with a wide range of materials, sizes and price points, which are designed for prototyping, end-use part production, casting patterns, molds, tooling, fixtures and medical models. Figure 4, a light-based SLA platform, also sometimes referred to as digital light processing (DLP), is an ultra-fast additive manufacturing technology with a discrete module design. This design allows a range of products and configurations to meet customer needs from a stand-alone product to modular products to fully-automated solutions. Figure 4 is capable of manufacturing parts in hybrid materials (multi-mode polymerization) that offer toughness, durability, biocompatibility, high temperature deflection and elastomeric properties. Figure 4 is also the first additive manufacturing product which can achieve six sigma repeatability. These capabilities enable new end-use applications in healthcare, dental, durable goods, automotive, aerospace and other verticals. 5 For SLA printers, we offer a variety of liquid resin materials, primarily under the Accura brand name. The resins are designed to mimic specific, engineered thermoplastics and provide a wide range of characteristics, including tough, durable, clear, castable, polypropylene-like, ABS-like, high-temperature resistant and bio-compatible materials. We also offer dental materials for light-based SLA 3D printers under our NextDent brand name. SLS Printers Our SLS 3D printers use a laser beam to melt and fuse powder-based nylon, engineered plastic and composite materials to produce very strong and durable parts. Customer uses of our SLS printers include functional test models and end-use parts, such as housings, machinery components, ducting, tooling, jigs and fixtures, medical devices and personalized surgery kits and guides. Our proprietary SLS materials include a range of flexible and rigid plastics, nylons and composite materials marketed under the DuraForm, LaserForm and CastForm brand names. These materials are available in a variety of lightweight, tough, versatile, high temperature, flexible, biocompatible and durable formulations. DMP Printers Our DMP solutions use a laser beam to sinter powders in a variety of metals to produce fully dense parts with outstanding purity, surface finish and resolution. We offer DMP solutions that can process a wide range of materials and powders, including materials with very fine granularity and proven manufacturing applications. We sell DMP systems in various sizes and configurations. Certain models are optimized for specific metals, including titanium, stainless steel and nickel super alloys. Our DMP printers are used in medical and dental implants, aerospace, automotive, semiconductor, and other hi-tech and industrial applications, such as conformal cooling, enhanced fluid flow and other complex, lightweight parts. We offer metal powder materials for our DMP printers, including titanium, stainless steels, tool steels, super alloys, non-ferrous alloys, precious metals and aluminum. MJP Printers Our MJP 3D printers utilize jetting head technology to deliver precise, tough parts with exceptional resolution in plastic, wax, elastomeric, biocompatible and engineered materials that we sell under the VisiJet brand name. Our MJP printers offer the capability to print in real wax as well as rigid and flexible plastics and multiple materials in one build, making them ideal for mechanical functional testing, rapid tooling, jigs and fixtures, casting and foundry patterns and medical models. CJP Printers Our CJP 3D printers produce parts using our VisiJet branded, powder-based ceramic-like materials. CJP printers build high-definition, full-color parts that can be sanded, drilled, infiltrated, painted and electroplated, which further expands the options available for finished part characteristics. CJP printers are ideal for producing models used in mechanical design, healthcare, architecture, education, entertainment and packaging applications. Software and Related Products We provide digital design tools, including software, scanners and haptic devices. We offer solutions for product design, mold and die design, 3D scan-to-print, reverse engineering, production machining, metrology and inspection. These products are designed to enable a seamless workflow for customers, and are marketed under brand names such as Geomagic. We also offer 3D Sprint and 3DXpert, proprietary software to prepare and optimize CAD data and manage the additive manufacturing processes. These software products provide automated support building and placement, build platform management and print queue management capabilities. The outcome is the ability to improve the quality of prints, optimize design structure, shorten design to manufacturing lead time and minimize manufacturing costs. Other Products We offer 3D virtual reality simulators and simulator modules for medical applications. These 3D simulators are sold under our Simbionix brand name and offer clinicians a realistic, hands-on experience to master critical skills, prepare for upcoming procedures and create patient specific simulations and operating room environments through augmented reality and virtual reality. We also provide digitizing scanners for medical and mechanical applications. 6 Services Maintenance and Training Services We provide a variety of customer services, local application support and field support on a worldwide basis for our products, including installation of new printers at customers sites, maintenance agreements, periodic hardware upgrades and software updates. We also provide services to assist our customers and partners in developing new applications for our technologies, to facilitate the use of our technology for specific applications, to train customers on the use of our printers and to maintain our printers at customers sites. We provide these services, spare parts and field support either directly or through a network of reseller partners. We employ customer-support sales engineers to support our worldwide customer base, and we seek to continue to strengthen and enhance our partner network and service offerings. Our 3D printers are sold with a warranty period ranging from 90 days to one year. After the warranty period, we generally offer service contracts that enable our customers to continue service and maintenance coverage. These service contracts are offered with various levels of support and options, and are priced accordingly. Our service engineers provide regularly scheduled preventive maintenance visits to customer sites, we provide training to our partners to enable them to perform these services, and we are adding remote monitoring and maintenance capabilities through our 3DConnect software. From time to time, we also offer upgrade kits for certain of our printers that enable our existing customers to take advantage of new or enhanced printer capabilities. In some cases, we have discontinued upgrade support and maintenance agreements for certain of our older legacy printers. On Demand Solutions We provide on demand manufacturing services through facilities worldwide in the Americas and EMEA regions. We provide a broad range of prototyping, production and finishing capabilities for precision plastic and metal parts and tooling with a wide range of additive and traditional manufacturing processes. In addition to the sales of parts to customers, we, and our partners, utilize our on demand services as a sales and lead generation tool. Third-party preferred service providers also use our on demand manufacturing service as their comprehensive order-fulfillment center, and customers can use our facilities as fulfillment centers in disaster recovery plans. Advanced Manufacturing As part of our strategy to help customers adopt additive manufacturing, we offer advanced manufacturing services through facilities in the Americas and EMEA regions. These facilities, which include our Customer Innovation Centers, supplement customer manufacturing environments by allowing them to test and ramp production using our solutions before transitioning production to their environment. This allows us to provide application and production expertise and refine the production process as part of our solutions approach. As the process is validated and volumes ramp, customers may choose to move production to their facilities using equipment, materials, software and services that they purchase from us. These facilities operate under stringent quality systems and are also utilized by customers in regulated industries such as healthcare and aerospace & defense for sustained outsourced production of hundreds of thousands of parts per year. Software Services In addition to our software license products described above, we offer software maintenance, which includes updates and support for our software products. Our software is sold with maintenance service that generally covers a period of one year. After this initial period, we offer single and multi-year maintenance contracts that enable our customers to continue coverage. These software service contracts typically include free software updates and various levels of technical support. Healthcare Services 7 As part of our precision healthcare services, we provide surgical planning, modeling, prototyping and manufacturing services. We offer printing and finishing of medical and dental devices, anatomical models and surgical guides and tools, as well as modeling, design and planning services, in cluding VSP. W e also provide service and maintenance for our surgical simulator products. Global Operations We operate in the Americas, EMEA and APAC regions, and market our products and services in those areas as well as to other parts of the world. In maintaining operations outside the United States (the U.S.), we expose our business to risks inherent in such operations, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. Information on foreign exchange risk appears in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Part II, Item 7A,