Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesGoodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. As a result of our annual impairment testing , we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $443.7 million and other intangible assets impairment charges of $93.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The impairment charges are non-c ash in nature and do not impact our cash position or cash flows, but such a charge, and possible additional charges in the future could adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders equity and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We will continue to monitor our reporting units in an effort to determine whether events and circumstances warrant further interim impairment testing. We could be required to write off or write down additional amounts in the future in the event of deterioration in our future performance, sustained slower growth or other circumstances. 14 We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasin g our costs of doing business. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third - party intellectual property claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from assembling or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the marketplaces in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure . Although we defend our intellectual property rights and endeavor to combat unlicensed copying and use of our digital content and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. If our intellectual property becomes subject to piracy attacks, they may harm our business. Additionally, we endeavor to protect the secrecy of our digital content, confidential information and trade secrets. If unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets occurs , we could potentially lose trade secret protection. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying previously confidential features , which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements. However there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure or adversely impacted by a successful cyber-attack. We have experienced cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our sensitive information. Prior cyber-attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results; however this may not continue to be the case in the future. Cyber security assessment analyses undertaken by us have identified and prioritized steps to enhance our cyber security safeguards. We are in the process of implementing these recommendations to enhance our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures. Despite the implementation of these new safeguards, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protecting our information or that we will not experience any future successful attacks. The threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because of the products and services we provide. If we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our cyber security protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses. These costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price; or such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property or early obsolescence of our products and services . If we cease to generate net cash flow from operations and if we are unable to raise additional capital, our financial condition c ould be adversely affect ed and we may not be able to execute our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will generate cash from operations or other potential sources to fund future working capital needs and meet capital expenditure requirements. 15 If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring or incurring additional debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to obtain additional capital or refinance any indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the capital markets, our financial condition at such time and the terms and conditions of any such financing or indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations . From time-to-time we may seek access to additional external sources of capital to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes. However, we cannot assure you that capital would be available from external sources such as bank credit facilities, debt or equity financings or other potential sources to fund any of those future needs . If our ability to generate cash flow from operations and our existing cash becomes inadequate to meet our needs, our options for addressing such capital constraints include, but are not limited to, (i) obtaining additional debt financing or increasing the limit on our current revolving credit facility, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to obtain additional debt financing it is likely that such alternatives in the current market environment would be on less favorable terms than we have historically obtained, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows . The lack of additional capital resulting from any inability to generate cash flow from operations or to raise equity or debt financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations and would, therefore, have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any necessary funds, if available, would be available on attractive terms or that they would not have a significantly dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If our financial condition worsens and we become unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or enter into other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to declare bankruptcy and we would not be able to execute our growth strategy . Global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets may harm our ability to do business, adversely affect our sales, costs, results of operations, and cash flow and negatively affect our stock price . We are subject to global economic, political and social conditions that may cause customers to delay or reduce technology purchases due to economic downturns, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factor s affecting spending behavior. W e face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experience d by our suppliers, resellers or customers, including , among others, the following : Customers or partners to whom we sell our products and services may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment of accounts receivable that those customers may owe; Customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products; Key suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in the products that we sell may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of printers, print materials or spare parts to our customers; and The inability of customers, including resellers, suppliers and contract manufacturers, to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products and raw materials used to build those products . The variety of products that we sell could cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our gross profit margins, and those fluctuations in margins could cause fluctuations in operating income or loss and net income or loss. We continuously work to expand and improve our product s, materials and services offerings, the number of geographic areas in which we operate and the distribution channels we use to reach various target product applications and customers. This variety of products, applications and channels involves a range of gross profit margins that can cause substantial quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margins depending upon the mix of product shipments from quarter to quarter. Additionally, the introduction of new products or services may further heighten quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margins due to manuf acturing ramp-up and start-up costs. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the mix of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. In some quarters, it is possible that our financial performance could be below expectations of analysts and investors. If so, the price of our common stock may be volatile or decline and o ur cost of capital may increase . 16 We derive a significant portion of our revenue from business conducted outside the U.S and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S . For the year ended 2015, 49.0% of our consolidated revenue was derived from customers in countries outside the U.S. There are many risks inherent in business activities outside the U.S. that, unless managed properly, may adversely affect our profitability, including our ability to collect amounts due from customers. While most of o ur operations outside the U.S. are conducted in highly developed countries, our operations could be adversely affected by , among others, the following : Unexpected changes in laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad ; Changes in regulatory requirements, including e xport controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions, competition, corporate practices and data privacy concerns ; Political policies, political or civil unrest, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks ; Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; Limited protection for the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights in some countries; Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; Operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; Potentially adverse changes in t axation ; and O ther factors, depending upon the specific country in which we conduct business. These uncertainties may make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities and may lead our customers in certain countries to delay purchases of our products and services. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in global financial markets and economies. The consequences of terrorism or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our market opportunities or our business. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. While the geographic areas outside the U.S. in which we operate are generally not considered to be highly inflationary, our foreign operations are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates arising from, among other things, certain intercompany transactions that are generally denominated, for example, in U.S. dollars rather than their respective functional currencies. Moreover, our operations are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our results of oper ations and financial condition. We seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when we consider it to be appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We depend on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials. If these relationships were to terminate or be disrupted , our business could be disrupted while we locate d alternative supplier s and our expenses may increase. W e have outsourced the assembly of certain of our printers to third party suppliers, we purchase components and sub-assemblies for our printers from third-party suppliers, and we purchase raw materials that are used in our print materials , as well as certain of those print materials, from third - party suppliers. 17 While there are several potential suppliers of the components, parts and sub - assemblies for our products, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components, including our lasers, print materials and certain jetting components. Our reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers involves many risks , including , among others, the following : Potential shortages of some key components; Disruptions in the operations of these suppliers; Product performance shortfalls; and Reduced control over delivery schedules, assembly capabilities, quality and costs. While we believe that we can obtain all the components necessary for our products from other manufacturers, we require any new supplier to become qualified pursuant to our internal procedures, which could involve evaluation processes of varying duration s . We generally have our printers and other products assembled based on our internal forecasts and the supply of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods from third parties, which are subject to various lead times . In addition, at any time, certain suppliers may decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use. Any unanticipated change in the source s of our supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could increase production or related costs and consequently reduce margins. If our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations . Inversely, we may lose orders if our forecast is low and we are unable to meet demand. We have engaged selected design and manufacturing companies to assemble certain of our production printers . In carrying out these outsourcing activities, we face a number of risks, including , among others, the following : The risk that the parties that we retain to perform assembly activities may not perform in a satisfactory manner; The risk of disruption in the supply of printers or other products to our customers if such third parties either fail to perform in a satisfactory manner or are unable to supply us with the quantity of printers or other products that are needed to meet then current customer demand ; and The risk of insolvency of these suppliers, as well as the risks that we face, as discussed above, in dealing with a limited number of suppliers. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition . We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these or any other legal matters. In the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters because our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . 18 Our products and services may experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims that could result in significant expenses and harm to our reputation . We sell complex hardware and software products, materials and services that can contain undetected design and manufacturing defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after the product has been installed and used by customers. Sophisticated software and applications, such as those sold by us, may contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with the softwares intended operation. Defects may also occur in components and products we purchase from third parties. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software, materials and services we sell. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance of those products and services, claims from distributors, end-users or others, increased end-user service and support costs, and significant warranty claims and other expenses to correct the defects, diversion of management time and attention and harm to our reputation. Our ope rations could suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key management or other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Our senior executive team is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as to the development of our strategy. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior executive team could delay or prevent the successful implementation of our growth strategy, or our commercialization of new applications for our systems or other products, or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to manage our company effectively and carry out our business plan. Members of our senior management team may resign at any time. High demand exists for senior management and other key personnel (including scientific, technical and sales personnel) in the 3D printing industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. While we intend to continue to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, some of our competitors for these employees have greater resources and more experience, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. If we cannot attract and retain sufficiently qualified technical employees for our research and development and manufacturing operations, we may be unable to achieve the synergies expected from mergers and acquisitions that we may effect from time to time, or to develop and commercialize new products or new applications for existing products. Furthermore, possible shortages of key personnel, including engineers, in the regions surrounding our facilities could require us to pay more to hire and retain key personnel, thereby increasing our costs . We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business reputation. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. We may become subject from time to time to product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses. The risk may be heightened when we provide products into certain markets, such as health-care, aerospace and automotive industries. This risk of product liability claims may also be greater due to the use of certain hazardous chemicals used in the production of certain of our products, including irritants, harmful chemicals and chemicals dangerous to the environment. We may also be subject to claims that our printers have been, or may be used to, create parts that are not in compliance with legal requirements or that infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products and other issues. However, the nature and extent of these limitations vary from customer to customer. Their effect is subject to a variety of legal limitations and it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. Any claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in significant expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business reputation and failure to retain existing customers or to attract new customers. Although we maintain product liability insurance, such insurance is subject to deductibles and there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. Costs or payments made in connection with product liability claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 19 We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to, among other things, effectively manage our accounting and financial functions, including maintaining our internal controls; to manage our manufacturing and supply chain processes; and to maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. Although we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet and Internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, natural or man-made disasters, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our reputation and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shut down; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs. We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investments. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and United Kingdom Bribery Act (the Bribery Act), export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS). As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign customers, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPAs prohibition on providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. In addition, the provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals that a government does not employ. Some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in Brazil, China, India and developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA, OFAC or Bribery Act violations in the future. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the DDTC, the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the BIS, and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by OFAC. The EAR governs products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called dual use items, and ITAR governs military items listed on the United States Munitions List. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. 20 Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, including the FCPA, the Bribery Act and trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, the DDTC and BIS, and have trained our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, and that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries, persons and entities, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in , or interpretation of , tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a U.S. based, multinational company subject to tax ation in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS ) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that we expect may result from the current exami nations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our business involves the blending, controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. If we are subject to any liability as a result of activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and may create challenges with our customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) and adjoining countries. The SEC has established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals sourced from the DRC and adjoining countri es in their products. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict-free minerals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain these conflict-free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive p rices. Compliance with these requirements may also increase our costs, including costs that may be incurred in conducting due diligence procedures to determine the sources of certain minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, we may face challenges with our customers if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products. 21 Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, considerable volatility. Between January 1, 201 4 and December 31, 201 5 , the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $ 8.44 per share to a high of $ 97.28 per share. Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including those described or referred to in this Risk Factors section of this Form 10-K, as well as, among other things: O ur perceived value in the securities markets ; O verall trends in the stock market; A nnouncements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one or more of our competitors; T he impact of changes in our results of operations, our financial condition or our prospects; Future sales of our common stock or other securities (including any shares issued in connection with earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition) ; M arket conditions for providers of products and services such as ours; Executive level management uncertainty or change; C hanges in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and A nnouncements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. The number of shares of common stock issuable in a stock offering , the issuance of restricted stock awards or the issuance of shares in connection with certain acquisitions or the conversion of the notes could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may affect the market price for our common stock. We may issue additional securities , from time to time , as necessary to provide flexibility to execute our growth strategy . Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our issuance of up to a total 220.0 million shares of common stock, of which 113.1 million shares have been issued or are otherwise currently reserved for issuance. Future issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. Additionally, subject to the limitations of our Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to re ceive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options, may dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock, none of which is currently issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue these shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series without further action of the stockholders and in that regard to determine the issue price, rights, preferences and privileges of any such class or series of preferred stock generally without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock may adversely a ffect the rights of holders of common stock . 22 Our ability to issue preferred stock gives us flexibility concerning possible acquisitions and financings, but it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock . In addition, any preferred stock that is issued may have other rights, including dividend rights, liquidation preferences and other economic rights, senior to the common stock , which could have a n adverse effect on the market value of our common stock . Certain provisions of Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control or the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares , possibly at a premium over the then mar ket price of our common stock. One of these Delaware laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years from the date that the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met . Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Item 2. Properties We occupy an 80,000 square foot headquarters and research and development facility in Rock Hill, South Carolina, which we lease pursuant to a lease agreement with Lex Rock Hill, LP . After its initial term ending August 31, 2021, the lease provides us with the option to renew the lease for two additional five-year terms. The lease is a triple net lease and provides for the payment of base rent of approximately $0.7 million annually from 201 5 through 2020, with a rent escalation in 2016 through 2021 . Under the terms of the lease, we are obligated to pay all taxes, insurance, utilities and other operating costs with respect to the leased premises . We own our Lawrenceburg, Tennessee and Tulsa, Oklahoma production facilities and lease various other facilities throughout the world. The table below summarizes our facilities greater than 10,000 square feet per location . Location Square Feet Primary Function Rock Hill, South Carolina 200,000 Manufacturing and warehouse Wilsonville, Oregon 88,300 Research and development Rock Hill, South Carolina 80,000 Headquarters, research and development and sales Littleton, Colorado 70,000 Production and research and development and sales Andover, Massachusetts 57,600 Manufacturing and research and development Tulsa, Oklahoma 44,000 On-demand parts services Sao Paulo, Brazil 37,000 On-demand parts services and sales Lawrenceburg, Tennessee 36,000 On-demand parts services Riom, France 33,300 Manufacturing and research and development and sales Turin, Italy 32,300 On-demand parts services Seoul, Korea 30,900 Research and development and sales Barberton, Ohio 30,500 Manufacturing and research and development and sales Seattle, Washington 29,400 On-demand parts services Leuven, Belgium 28,400 On-demand parts services and research and development Herndon, Virginia 27,000 Manufacturing and research and development and sales Tel Aviv, Israel 26,000 Manufacturing, warehouse, research and development and sales Burbank, California 23,000 On-demand parts services and sales Moorpark, California 22,500 Manufacturing and research and development and sales Golden, Colorado 22,400 Production and research and development and sales High Wycombe, United Kingdom 22,300 On-demand parts services Cary, North Carolina 21,800 Research and development and sales Le Mans, France 21,200 On-demand parts services Shanghai, China 21,000 On-demand parts services and sales Budel, Netherlands 19,900 On-demand parts services Langhorne, Pennsylvania 18,800 On-demand parts services Wuxi, China 18,300 On-demand parts services and sales Tel Aviv, Israel 16,600 Research and development and sales Marly, Switzerland 15,300 Production and research and development and sales Hemel Hempstead, United Kingdom 12,400 General and corporate Valencia, California 11,000 Research and development Atlanta, Georgia 10,900 On-demand parts services Item 3. Legal Proceedings For information relating to legal proceedings, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable . 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the trading symbol DDD. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high an d low prices of our c ommon s tock , $0.001 par value, as quoted on the NYSE . Year Period High Low 2014 Q1 $ 97.28 $ 54.63 Q2 61.03 43.35 Q3 69.56 46.05 Q4 46.15 27.46 2015 Q1 $ 33.97 $ 26.29 Q2 32.88 19.43 Q3 19.68 10.85 Q4 13.93 8.44 As of March 7 , 201 6 , our outstanding c ommon stock was held by approximately 967 s tockholders of record . This figure does not reflect the beneficial ownership of shares held in the nominee name. Dividends We do not currently pay , and have not paid, any dividends on our common s tock, and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in our business. Any future determination as to the declaration o f dividends on our c ommon s tock will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, operating and financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors, including the applicable requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that dividends are payable only out of surplus or current net profits. The payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by the provisions of credit agreements or other financing documents that we may enter into or the terms of securities that we may issue from time to time. Currently, no such agreements or documents limit our declaration of dividends or payments of dividends, other than our $150 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility with PNC, which limits the amount of cash dividends that we may pay in any one fiscal year to $30 .0 million . Issuance of Unregistered Securities and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any of our equi ty securities during the year ended 20 15, except for unvested restricted stock awards repurchased or forfeited pursuant to our 2004 and 2015 Incentive Stock Plans. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Equity Compensation Plans under Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K. Also see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Issuer purchases of equity securities (a) (b) (c) (d) Total number of shares (or units) purchased Average price paid per share (or unit) Total number of shares (or units) purchased as part of publically announced plans or programs Maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares (or units) that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs October 1, 2015 - October 31, 2015 $ $ November 1, 2015 - November 30, 2015 20,123 (a) 9.01 (a) December 1, 2015 - December 31, 2015 Total 20,123 $ 9.01 $ 25 (a) Reflects shares of common stock surrendered to the Company for payment of tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock. The average price paid reflects the average market value of shares withheld for tax purposes. Stock Performance Graph The graph below shows, for the fi ve years ended December 31, 2015 , the cumulative total return on an investment of $100 assumed to hav e been made on December 31, 2010 in our c ommon s tock. For purposes of the graph, cumulative total return assumes the reinvestment of all dividends. The graph compares such return with those of comparable investments assumed to have been made on the same date in (a) the NYSE Composite Index, ( b ) the S&P 500 Information Technology Index, and (c) the S&P Mid-Cap 400 Index, which are published market indices with which we are sometimes compared. Although total return for the assumed investment assumes the reinvestment of all dividends on December 31 of the year in which such dividends were paid, we paid no cas h dividends on our c ommon s tock during the periods presented. Our common stock is listed on t he NYSE (trading symbol: DDD ). COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* * $100 invested on 12/31/ 10 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 12/10 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 3D Systems Corporation $ 100 $ 91 $ 339 $ 885 $ 313 $ 83 NYSE Composite Index 100 96 112 142 151 145 S&P 500 Information Technology Index 100 102 118 151 181 192 S&P 500 Mid-Cap 400 Index 100 98 116 155 170 166 26 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected consolidated financial data set forth below for the five years ended December 31, 20 15 have been derived from our historical Consolidated Financial Statements . You should read this information together with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the notes to the selec ted consolidated financial data and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto for December 31, 20 15 and prior years included in this Form 10-K . Year ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated Statement of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Data: Consolidated Revenue: Products $ 257,379 $ 283,339 $ 227,627 $ 126,798 $ 66,665 Materials 150,740 158,859 128,405 103,182 70,641 Services 258,044 211,454 157,368 123,653 93,117 Total 666,163 653,652 513,400 353,633 230,423 Gross profit 291,809 317,434 267,594 181,196 109,028 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (a) 537,179 Income (loss) from operations (641,924) 26,315 80,861 60,571 34,902 Net income (loss) (b) (663,925) 11,946 44,119 38,941 35,420 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders (655,492) 11,637 44,107 38,941 35,420 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders per share: Basic and diluted $ (5.85) $ 0.11 $ 0.45 $ 0.48 $ 0.47 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 286,996 $ 432,864 $ 416,399 $ 212,285 $ 202,357 Total assets (a) (b) 893,275 1,530,310 1,097,856 677,442 462,974 Current portion of debt and capitalized lease obligations 529 684 187 174 163 Long term debt and capitalized lease obligations, less current portion (c) 8,187 8,905 18,693 87,974 138,716 Total stockholders' equity 654,646 1,294,125 933,792 480,333 254,788 Other Data: Depreciation and amortization $ 83,069 $ 55,188 $ 30,444 $ 21,229 $ 11,093 Interest expense 2,011 1,227 3,425 12,468 2,090 Capital expenditures (d) 22,399 22,727 6,972 3,224 2,870 (a) For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets impairment, see Notes 2, 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) In 2015, based upon our recent results of operations and expectation of profitability in future years, we concluded that it is not more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be realized in certain jurisdictions, including the US and certain foreign jurisdictions, and as such, we recorded a $107.3 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets . See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (c) In 2011, we issued $152.0 million of 5.50% senior convertible notes . All outstanding notes were converted in the third quarter of 2014. (d) Excludes capital lease additions . 27 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The fol lowing discussion and analysis should be read together with the selected consolidated financial data and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes there to set forth in this Form 10-K . Certain statements contained in this discussion may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that c ould cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in any forward-looking statements, as discussed more fully in this Form 10-K. See Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. The forward-looking information set forth in this Form 10-K is provided as of the date of this filing, and, except as required by law, we undertake no duty to update that information. Overview We provide comprehensive 3D products and services, including 3D printers, print materials, on-demand parts services and digital design and manufacturing tools. Our ecosystem supports advanced applications from the product design shop to the factory floor to the operating room. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning and printing of medical and dental devices as well as patient-specific surgical instruments. We enable professionals and companies to optimize their designs, transform their workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models . Growth strategy We are pursuing a growth strategy that focuses on strategic initiatives related to profitable growth opportunities in professional and industrial applications. We anticipate the ongoing expansion of 3D printing from the design and prototyping lab to the factory floor, and as the originator and a shaper of future 3D solutions, we plan to continue to invest in advanced developments to enhance and accelerate manufacturing applications, including the development of systems and materials which we believe are critical to driving growth. We have launched new 3D printers with increased speeds and capabilities and larger build areas as well as introduced print materials with improved strength, temperature, durability and elasticity, developments that we believe are well suited for advanced and demanding professional and industrial applications, including manufacturing of end-use parts. We have also stre ngthened our software portfolio to help enhance our customers workflows from design to manufacturing . We view direct metal 3D printing as a significant growth opportunity and continue to strengthen our capabilities and product offering in metals. We have a team that is focused on advancing our direct metal printing products and services. In addition to our existing portfolio of direct metal printers, we recently launched the new ProX DMP 320 system, designed for high precision, high throughput direct metal printing, with models that are optimized for printing with titanium, stainless steel or nickel super alloy. We believe healthcare applications will also help drive our growth and profitability. We offer a comprehensive range of products and services that provide solutions from the training room to the operating room. We continue to expand our healthcare focused operations in the U.S. and Europe in support of growth in precision healthcare applications. We expect to be able to support growth by prioritizing our resources to focus on professional and industrial opportunities and leveraging our technology, domain expertise and strong customer and partner relationships. As with any growth strategy, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in accomplishing our strategic initiatives . Recent Developments In December 2015, we announced the end-of-life of the Cube, our $999 consumer 3D printer. The end-of-life of the Cube and related shift away from consumer products reflects management's plans to focus our resources and strategic initiatives on near-term opportunities and profitability. In January 2016, we launched the ProX DMP 320 printer, designed for high precision, high throughput direct metal printing, with models that are optimized for printing with titanium, stainless steel or nickel super alloy . 28 Summary of 20 15 Financial Results We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. Total consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 1.9 %, or $12.5 million, to $666.2 million, compared to $653.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $513.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Th ese results primarily reflect an increase in services revenue, partially offset by lower sales of 3D printers and materials and an unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation , as further discussed below. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, our backlog was $ 38.4 million and $46.5 million, respectively. The decrease reflects our shift away from consumer and retail products and processing of printer orders. Production and delivery of our printers is generally not characterized by long lead times; backlog is more dependent on timing of customers requested deliveries. In addition, on-demand parts services lead time and backlog depends on whether orders are for rapid prototyping or longer-range production runs. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , backlog included $ 13.0 million and $13.4 million of on-demand parts services orders, respectively . We calculate organically generated revenue by comparing this years total revenue for the period, excluding the revenue recognized from all acquired businesses tha t we have owned for less than 12 months, to last years total revenue for the period. Once we have owned a business for one year, the revenue is included in organically generated revenue. For the quarter and full year ended December 31 , 2015, organically generated revenue decreased 11.1 % and 11.7 %, respectively, compared to an increase in organically generated revenue of 7.2 % and 13.3 %, respectively, for the quarter and full year ended December 31 , 2014. The decrease in organic revenue in 2015 primarily reflects the lower sales of 3D printers and materials as well as the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Healthcare revenue includes sales of products, materials, and services for health-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments and medical and dental devices. For the quarter ended December 31 , 2015, hea lthcare revenue decreased by 2.2%, or $1.0 million, to $41.8 million, and made up 22.8 % of total revenue, compared to $42.8 million, or 22.8 % of total revenue for the quarter ended December 31 , 2014. For the full year ended December 31 , 2015, heal thcare revenue increased by 9.1 %, or $11.8 million, to $ 141.1 million, and made up 21.2 % of total revenue, compared to $129.3 million, or 19.8 % of total revenue, for the full year ended December 31 , 2014. Healthcare related revenue growth for the year was driven by our broader range of products and services that resulted from acquisitions and expansion by customers utilizing 3D printing in the manufacturing of medical and dental parts. Consumer revenue includes sales of our desktop Cube series 3D printers and their related print materials, Sense 3D scanners and other products and services related to consumer products and retail channels. For the quarter ended December 31 , 2015, consumer revenue decreased by 26.2 %, or $3.9 million, to $ 11.1 million, and made up 6.0 % of total revenue, compared to $ 15.0 million, or 8.0% of total revenue for the quarter ended December 31 , 2014. For the full year ended December 31 , 2015, consumer revenue increased 6.0 %, or $2.7 million, to $ 46.5 million , and made up 7.0 % of total revenue, compared to $ 43.8 million, or 6.7 % of total revenue, for the full year ended December 31 , 2014. In December 2015, we announced the end-of-life of our $999 consumer 3D printer, Cube, and our shift away from consumer and retail products and services. Gross profit for the year ended December 31 , 2015 decreased by 8.1 %, or $ 25.6 million, to $ 291.8 million, compared to $ 317.4 million for the year ended December 31 , 2014, reflecting a decrease in products and materials revenue , coupled with cash and non-cash charges of $27.4 million related to the end-of-life of the Cube 3D printer and our shift away from consumer products . Gro ss profit margin for the years ended December 31 , 2015 and 2014 was 43.8 %, and 48.6 % , respectively , reflecting a decrease in products margins, which was driven by cash and non-cash charges related to the end-of-life of the Cube 3D printer and our shift away from consumer products, which more than offset higher materials and services margins . Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 220.7 %, or $642.6 million, to $ 933.7 million, compared to $291.1 million for the year ended December 31 , 2014. These results reflect good will and other intangible asset impairment charges of $ 443.7 millio n and $93.5 million, respectively, arising from our annual impairment testing process, which uses a cash flow model that factors in business and market conditions, including slower sustained growth o f products and services revenue . See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our annual goodwill impairment testing. Excluding the goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges, o perating expenses increased $105.4 million on higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to costs related to acquisitions, including amortization expense and higher compensation and travel expenses, in addition to a $ 17.4 million increase in research and development expenses related to our portfolio expansion and development of new products . 29 Our operating loss for the year ended December 31 , 2015 was $ 641.9 million, com pared to operating income of $26.3 million for the year ended December 31 , 2014, reflecting goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges , higher operating expenses as described in more detail below , and lower gross profit. For the year ended December 31 , 2015 , we used $ 3.1 million of cash in operations , which is described in further detail below. We used $ 120.9 million to fund our strategic investing activities for year ended December 31 , 2015, including acquisition costs and capital expenditures related to infrastructure and on-demand parts expansion . Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 used $ 2.2 million of cash , described in further detail below . In total, our unrestricted cash balance at December 31 , 2015 and 2014, was $ 155.6 million and $284.9 million , respectively . Results of Operations for 201 5 , 201 4 and 201 3 Revenue by class of product and service 2015 compared to 2014 Table 1 below sets forth revenue and percentage of revenue by class of product and service for 2015 compared to 2014 . Table 1 (Dollars in thousands) Products Materials Services Totals Revenue 2014 $ 283,339 43.3 % $ 158,859 24.3 % $ 211,454 32.4 % $ 653,652 100 % Change in revenue: Volume Core products and services 26,623 9.4 19,594 12.3 79,200 37.5 125,417 19.2 New products and services (32,297) (11.4) (31,285) (19.7) (15,233) (7.2) (78,815) (12.1) Price/Mix (1,744) (0.6) 13,495 8.5 11,751 1.8 Foreign currency translation (18,542) (6.5) (9,923) (6.2) (17,377) (8.2) (45,842) (7.0) Net change (25,960) (9.1) (8,119) (5.1) 46,590 22.1 12,511 1.9 Revenue 2015 $ 257,379 38.6 % $ 150,740 22.6 % $ 258,044 38.8 % $ 666,163 100.0 % Total consolidated revenue increased by 1.9%, primarily due to an increase in services revenue , partially offset by a decrease in products and materials volume and an unfavorable foreign currency impact . The decrease in products revenue was primarily driven by lower sales of 3D printers coupled with an unfavorable foreign currency impact. The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers and design tools including software products, scanners and haptic devices . For the year ended December 31, 2015, software revenue, including scanners and haptic devices, contributed $44.3 million, compared to $20.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily reflecting expanded software products from our acquisition of Cimatron in 2015. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced professional printer sales in any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The decrease in materials revenue was primarily driven by softness in demand for printers and timing of sales of materials. For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales of integrated materials decreased by 0.2% to $116.2 million and represented 77.1% of total materials revenue, compared to 73.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in services revenue primarily reflects our expanded offerings of services. For the year ended December 31, 2015, services revenue from on-demand parts increased 4.1%, to $127.4 million, compared to $122.4 for the year ended December 31, 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, revenue from software services was $33.8 million and $15.2 million, respectively, primarily reflecting expanded software products, including the acquisition of Cimatron in 2015. 30 In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Managements Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically rela ted to changes in unit volume. Among these changes are changes in the product mix of our materials and our printers as the trend toward smaller, lower-priced printers has continued and the influence of new printers and materials on our operating results has grown. 2014 compared to 2013 Table 2 sets forth the change in revenue by class of product and service for 20 14 compared to 20 13. Table 2 (Dollars in thousands) Products Materials Services Total 2013 Revenue $ 227,627 44.3 % $ 128,405 25.0 % $ 157,368 30.7 % $ 513,400 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume Core products and services 39,053 17.2 24,778 19.3 40,726 25.9 104,557 20.4 New products and services 18,588 8.2 8,053 6.3 13,474 8.6 40,115 7.8 Price/Mix (494) (0.2) (1,836) (1.4) (2,330) (0.5) Foreign currency translation (1,435) (0.6) (541) (0.4) (114) (0.1) (2,090) (0.4) Net change 55,712 24.6 30,454 23.8 54,086 34.4 140,252 27.3 2014 Revenue $ 283,339 43.3 % $ 158,859 24.3 % $ 211,454 32.4 % $ 653,652 100.0 % The increase in revenue from products for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 was driven by increased demand for design and manufacturing printers and added healthcare products. S oftware revenue contributed $20.1 million and $20.6 million of products revenue for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively . The increase in revenue from materials was aided by the improvement in sales of 3D printers and the increased utilization of printers installed over past periods . Sales of integ rated materials increased 28.5% and represented 73.3% of total materials revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 70.6% for the year ended December 31, 2013 . The increase in service revenue primarily reflects the addition of Medical Modeling and Simbionix, coupled with growing On-demand parts, consumer and software services . Service revenu e from On-demand parts increased 21.1% to $122.4 million, or 57.9 % of total service revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $101.1 million, or 64.2 %, of total service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 . For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, s oftware services contribu ted $15.2 million and $8.2 milli on, respectively . 31 Revenue by geographic region 20 15 compared to 20 14 Table 4 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic area for 20 15 compared to 20 14 : Table 4 (Dollars in thousands) Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total Revenue 2014 $ 333,925 51.1 % $ 196,087 30.0 % $ 123,640 18.9 % $ 653,652 100 % Change in revenue: Volume 38,699 11.6 25,100 12.8 (17,197) (13.9) 46,602 7.1 Price/Mix (10,171) (3.0) 12,529 6.4 9,393 7.6 11,751 1.8 Foreign currency translation (4,477) (1.3) (33,612) (17.1) (7,753) (6.3) (45,842) (7.0) Net change 24,051 7.3 4,017 2.1 (15,557) (12.6) 12,511 1.9 Revenue 2015 $ 357,976 53.7 % $ 200,104 30.0 % $ 108,083 16.3 % $ 666,163 100 % The growth in the Americas and EMEA for the year ended December 31, 2015 was driven by an increase in services revenue, while continued macroeconomic weaknesses compressed printers and materials revenue in the Asia Pacific region. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenue from operations outside the Americas decreased by 3.6%, to $308.2 million, compared to $319.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to the decrease in revenue in the Asia Pacific region . For the year ended December 31, 2015 revenue from operations outside the U.S. as a percent of total revenue was 49.0%, compared to 49.1% for the year ended December 31, 2014. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation on revenues outside the U.S. would result in growth of 8.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015. 20 14 compared to 20 13 All geographic region s experienced higher level s of revenue in 20 14 compared to 20 13 . Table 5 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic area for 20 14 compared to 20 13 : Table 5 (Dollars in thousands) Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total 2013 Revenue $ 284,752 55.4 % $ 133,781 26.1 % $ 94,867 18.5 % $ 513,400 100.0 % Change in revenue: Volume 51,791 18.2 57,067 42.7 35,814 37.8 144,672 28.2 Price/Mix (2,534) (0.9) 3,517 2.6 (3,313) (3.5) (2,330) (0.5) Foreign currency translation (84) 0.0 1,722 1.3 (3,728) (3.9) (2,090) (0.4) Net change 49,173 17.3 62,306 46.6 28,773 30.4 140,252 27.3 2014 Revenue $ 333,925 51.1 % $ 196,087 30.0 % $ 123,640 18.9 % $ 653,652 100.0 % The growth across all regions for the year ended December 31, 2014 was driven by an increase in volume of products and services revenue . For the year ended December 31, 201 4 , revenue from operations outside the Americas increased by 39.8 %, to $ 319.7 million, compared to $ 228.6 million for the year ended December 31, 201 3 . Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation on revenues outside the U.S. would result in growth of 27.8% for the year ended December 31, 2014 . 32 Gross profit and gross profit margins 2015 compared to 2014 Table 6 sets forth gross profit and gross profit margin s for our products and services for 2015 compared to 2014. Table 6 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Change in Gross Profit Change in Gross Profit Margin (Dollars in thousands) Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin $ % Percentage Points % Products $ 50,304 19.5 % $ 101,681 35.9 % $ (51,377) (50.5) % (16.4) (45.7) % Materials 114,176 75.7 116,526 73.4 (2,350) (2.0) 2.3 3.1 Services 127,329 49.3 99,227 46.9 28,102 28.3 2.4 5.1 Total $ 291,809 43.8 % $ 317,434 48.6 % $ (25,625) (8.1) % (4.8) (9.9) % Total consolidated gross profit decreased, primarily driven by cash and non-cash charges related to the end-of-life of the Cube 3D printer and our shift away from consumer products , in addition to lower products revenue, as discussed below. Gross profit margin for products decreased primarily due to lower sales of 3D printers, coupled with cash and non-cash charges of approximately $27.4 million related to the end-of-life of the Cube 3D printer and our shift away from consumer products, which more than offset increased contributions from higher margin software and healthcare products. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Gross profit margin for materials increased, reflecting a favorable mix of materials sold during the period and improved supply chain efficiencies in materials production. Gross profit margin for services increased primarily due to the addition of higher margin healthcare and software services. On-demand parts services gross profit margin increased to 43.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to 43.5% for the year ended December 31, 2014. 201 4 compared to 201 3 Table 7 sets forth gross profit and gross profit margin s for our products and services for 2014 compared to 2013 . Table 7 Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Change in Profit Change in Gross Profit Margin (Dollars in thousands) Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin $ % Percentage Points % Products $ 101,681 35.9 % $ 101,838 44.7 % $ (157) (0.2) % (8.8) (19.7) % Materials 116,526 73.4 94,581 73.7 21,945 23.2 (0.3) (0.4) Services 99,227 46.9 71,175 45.2 28,052 39.4 1.7 3.8 Total $ 317,434 48.6 % $ 267,594 52.1 % $ 49,840 18.6 % (3.5) (6.7) % The lower consolidated gross profit margin reflects a change in revenue mix with a higher portion of revenue from lower margin products, both overall and within categories, as well as availability of new products and new product startup costs. Despite the addition of higher margin healthcare products and the contribution of software, products gross profit margin decreased due to sales mix coupled with manufacturing expansion and residual new product start-up costs. 33 Gross profit for materials increased primarily due to the mix of ma terials sold during the year. The increase in gross profit margin for services was primarily due to the addition of higher margin healthcare servic es and an increase in on-demand parts services gross profit margin , to 43.5% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 42.9% for the year ended December 31, 2013. Operating expenses 2015 compared to 2014 Table 8 sets forth the components of operating expenses for 2015 compared to 2014 . Table 8 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Change (Dollars in thousands) Amount % Revenue Amount % Revenue $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 303,784 45.6 % $ 215,724 33.0 % $ 88,060 40.8 % Research and development expenses 92,770 13.9 75,395 11.5 17,375 23.0 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 537,179 80.6 537,179 NA Total operating expenses $ 933,733 140.1 % $ 291,119 44.5 % $ 642,614 220.7 % Total operating expenses increased, reflecting impairment charges related t o goodwill and other intangible assets that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015, in addition to higher selling, general and administrative expenses and higher research and development expenses, as discussed below . Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due primarily to a $37.9 million increase in compensation costs due to acquisitions and increased staffing, a $21.6 million increase in amortization, an $11.3 million arbitration award expense recorded in the third quarter of 2015 related to an earnout in connection with an acquisition completed in 2011, a $4.6 million increase in marketing expenses, a $2.5 million increase in travel expenses and a $1.4 million increase in outside consulting services. Research and development expenses increased primarily due to an $11.0 million increase in compensation costs related to acquisitions and increased staffing and a $5.7 million increase in outside services associated with product development. In connection with our annual goodwill and other intangible assets testing, we recorded goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charge s of $537.2 million related to our geographic reporting unit s . See Notes 2, 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2014 compared to 2013 Table 9 sets forth the components of operating expenses for 2014 compared to 2013 . Table 9 Year Ended December 31 2014 2013 Change (Dollars in thousands) Amount % Revenue Amount % Revenue $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 215,724 33.0 % $ 143,244 27.9 % $ 72,480 50.6 % Research and development expenses 75,395 11.5 43,489 8.5 31,906 73.4 Total operating expenses $ 291,119 44.5 % $ 186,733 36.4 % $ 104,386 55.9 % 34 The in crease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased sales and marketing expenses and higher staffing due to our expanding portfolio and included a $34.9 million increase in salary, benefits and contract labor costs, an $18.7 million increase in amortization expense primarily due to intangible assets from acquired businesses , a $3.7 million increase in bad debt expense , a $2.5 million increase in consulting fees, a $2.1 million increase in marketing expenses, a $1.5 million increase in legal expense and a $1.2 million increase in occupancy expense. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily driven by a $17.7 million increase in R&D salary and compensation expenses related to talent expansion, a $4.8 million increase in supplies and materials in support of our accelerated new product developments and investments, a $2.2 million increase in outside consulting and outsourcing services and a $1.9 million increase in depreciation and amortization. Income from operations Table 10 sets forth income from operations by geographic area for 201 5 , 201 4 and 201 3 . Table 10 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2013 Income (loss) from operations Americas $ (587,435) $ (24,663) $ 43,743 Germany 337 2,749 302 Other EMEA (82,593) 9,181 7,849 Asia Pacific 29,639 40,131 30,499 Subtotal (640,052) 27,398 82,393 Inter-segment elimination (1,872) (1,083) (1,532) Total $ (641,924) $ 26,315 $ 80,861 The decrease in operating income was due to increased op erating expenses, including goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges of $474.5 million in the Americas and $62.7 million in EMEA, which more than offset the increased revenue and gross profit. See Gross profit and gross profit margins and Operating expenses above . With respect to the Americas, in 2015, 2014 and 2013 , the changes in operating income by geographic area reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating income that are discussed above. The changes in operating income in our operations outside the Americas in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013 resulted primarily from transfer pricing, changes in sales volume and foreign currency translation as well as goodwill and intangibles impairment charges i n EMEA that are discussed above . Interest and other expenses, net Table 11 sets forth the components of interest and other expenses, net, for 201 5, 2014 and 2013 . Table 11 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2013 Interest and other expense, net: Interest income $ 521 $ 482 $ 1,258 Foreign exchange loss (3,263) (5,727) (773) Interest expense (2,011) (1,227) (3,425) Other expense, net (8,276) (2,456) (13,915) Total interest and other expense, net $ (13,029) $ (8,928) $ (16,855) 35 For the year ended December 31, 2015, other expense, net, includes impairment charges of $7.4 million related to certain minority investments of less than 20% ownership, for which we do not exercise significant influence . See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized an $11.3 million loss on conversion of converti ble notes in other expense, net. All outstanding notes were converted during 2014, at which time a $1.8 million loss was recorded in other expense, net. Benefit and provision for income taxes We recorded a $9.0 million, $ 5.4 million and $ 19.9 million provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 201 4 and 20 13 , respectively. In 2015, this expense primarily reflected a $ 5.5 m illion U.S. tax expense and $3.5 million of tax expense in foreign jurisdictions. In 2014, this expense primarily reflec ted a $1.7 million U.S. tax expense and $3.7 million of tax expense in foreign jurisdictions. In 2013, this expense primarily reflect ed an $18.4 million U.S. tax expense and $1.5 million of tax expense in foreign jurisdictions. During 2015, we concluded that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized in certain jurisdictions, including the US and certain foreign jurisdictions, and as such, we recorded a $107.3 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. During 2014 and 2013, based upon our results of operations and expected profitability in the future, we concluded that it was more likely than not that all our deferred tax assets will be realized, and as a result, no valuation allowances were recorded for 2014 and 2013 . For further discussion, s ee Note s 2 and 2 0 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Net i ncome (loss) ; net income (loss) available to 3D Systems common stockholders 2015 compared to 2014 Table 12 sets forth the primary components of net income attributable to 3D Systems for 2015 compared to 2014 . Table 12 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Operating income (loss) $ (641,924) $ 26,315 $ (668,239) Less: Interest and other expense, net 13,029 8,928 4,101 Provision for income taxes 8,972 5,441 3,531 Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (8,433) 309 (8,742) Net income (loss) attributable to 3D Systems $ (655,492) $ 11,637 $ (667,129) Weighted average shares, basic and diluted 111,969 108,023 Earnings (loss) per share, basic and diluted $ (5.85) $ 0.11 The principal reasons for our lower net income for the year ended December 31, 2015, which are discussed in more detail above, were a decrease in gross profit and increased operating expenses as a result of $537.2 million of impairme nt charges related t o goodwill and other intangible assets , costs related to acquisitions , including higher amortization, compensation and travel expenses, in addition to higher research and development expenses related to our portfolio expansion and development of new products . See Gross profit and gross profit margins and Operating expenses above . For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the average outstanding diluted shares calculation excluded restricted stock units and shares that may have been issued upon conversion of the outstanding senior convertible notes because the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive resulting in an increase to the net earnings per share. All senior convertible notes were converted in 2014. For further discussion, see Notes 17 and 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 36 2014 compared to 2013 Table 13 sets forth the primary components of net income attributable to 3D Systems for 2014 compared to 2013 . Table 13 Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Operating income (loss) $ 26,315 $ 80,861 $ (54,546) Less: Interest and other expense, net 8,928 16,855 (7,927) Provision for income taxes 5,441 19,887 (14,446) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 309 12 297 Net income attributable to 3D Systems $ 11,637 $ 44,107 $ (32,470) Weighted average shares, basic and diluted 108,023 98,393 Earnings per share, basic and diluted $ 0.11 $ 0.45 The principal reasons for our lower net income for the year ended December 31, 201 4 , which are disc ussed in more detail above, was a decrease in gross profit and higher operating expenses as a result of higher sales and marketing and R&D expense in support of concentrated new product launches and channel expansion and training . See Gross profit and gross profit margins and Operating expenses above. For the years ended 2014 and 2013, t he average outstanding diluted shares calculation excluded shares that may have be en issued upon conversion of the outstanding senior convertible notes because the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive resulting in an increase to the net earnings per share. All senior convertible notes were converted in 2014. In February 2013, we announced a three -for- two stock split, in the form of a stock dividend. Trading began on a split-adjust ed basis on February 28, 2013. Other Financial Informa t ion In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, management believes non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. We also use non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share to supplement our Consolidated Financial Statements presented on a GAAP basis to facilitate a better understanding of the impact that several strategic acquisitions had on our financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which costs, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP financial statements as required in our public disclosures as well as reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share to our GAAP financial statements. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share, are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share, are adjusted for the following: 37 Acquisition and severance expenses . We exclude the tax-effected charges associated with the acquisition of businesses and the related severance expenses from our operating expenses . Amortization of intangibles . We exclude the tax-effected amortization of intangible assets from our cost of sales and operating expenses. The increase in recent periods is primarily in connection with acquisitions of businesses . Arbitration award . We exclude tax-effected expenses associated with litigation awards and settlements. Charges related to shift away from consumer products and services . We exclude the tax-effected, cash and non-cash charges associated with our shift away from consumer products and serv ices, including charge s related to the write-down of inventory in connection with the end-of-life of our Cube consumer 3D printer . Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets . We exclude the tax-effected non-cash charges associated with goodwill and other intangible asset impairment . Loss on convertible notes . We exclude the tax-effected loss on conversion of convertible notes from interest and other expenses, net . Net (gain) loss on litigation and tax settlements. We exclude the tax-effected, net gain or loss on acquisitions and litigation settlements from other expenses, net. Non-cash interest expense . We exclude tax-effected non-cash interest expenses related to the costs associated with our senior convertible notes, from interest and other expenses, net . Non-cash stock-based compensation expenses . We exclude the tax-effected stock-based compensation expenses from operating expenses primarily because they are non-cash . Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to GAAP Financial Measures Table 14 Year Ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2015 2014 2013 GAAP net income (loss) attributable to 3D Systems Corporation $ (655,492) $ 11,637 $ 44,107 Cost of sales adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 303 281 250 Charges related to shift away from consumer products and services cash 8,771 Charges related to shift away from consumer products and services non-cash 18,619 Operating expense adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 60,763 39,193 20,448 Acquisition and severance expenses 9,274 7,994 7,057 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 537,179 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 34,733 32,793 13,495 Arbitration award 11,282 Interest and other expense adjustments: Non-cash interest expense 225 973 Loss on convertible notes 1,806 11,275 Net loss on litigation and tax settlements 2,457 Tax effect (a) 4,578 (18,810) (16,327) Non-GAAP net income $ 30,010 $ 75,119 $ 83,735 Non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share $ 0.27 $ 0.70 $ 0.85 (a) Tax effect is calculated quarterly, based on the actual tax rate for each quarter. 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources Table 15 sets forth the components of working capital and liquidity. Table 1 5 At December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Cash and cash equivalents $ 155,643 $ 284,862 $ (129,219) (45.4) % Accounts receivable: Gross accounts receivable 171,545 178,741 (7,196) (4.0) Allowance for doubtful accounts (14,139) (10,300) (3,839) 37.3 Accounts receivable, net 157,406 168,441 (11,035) (6.6) Inventories: Raw materials 59,444 49,456 9,988 20.2 Work in process 4,067 2,304 1,763 76.5 Finished goods 70,591 51,560 19,031 36.9 Inventories, gross 134,102 103,320 30,782 29.8 Inventory reserves (28,225) (6,675) (21,550) 322.8 Inventories, net 105,877 96,645 9,232 9.6 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 13,541 15,769 (2,228) (14.1) Current deferred income tax asset 14,973 (14,973) (100.0) Total current assets $ 432,467 $ 580,690 $ (148,223) (25.5) % Current portion of debt and capitalized lease obligations 529 684 (155) (22.7) Accounts payable 46,869 64,378 (17,509) (27.2) Accrued and other liabilities 54,699 43,554 11,145 25.6 Customer deposits 8,229 6,946 1,283 18.5 Deferred revenue 35,145 32,264 2,881 8.9 Total current liabilities $ 145,471 $ 147,826 $ (2,355) (1.6) % Working capital $ 286,996 $ 432,864 $ (145,868) (33.7) % Stockholders' equity attributable to 3D Systems Corporation $ 655,909 $ 1,292,918 $ (637,009) (49.3) % We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next 12 months or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies . However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities beyond the next 12 months. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing from financial institutions, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below . Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 included $ 59.0 million of cash held outside the U.S., compared to $39.6 million at December 31, 2014. Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation. 39 Even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into a credit facility for other reasons. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be diluted . In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Days sales outstanding was 79 days at December 31, 2015 compared to 83 days at December 31, 2014 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due increased to 17.6% of gross receivables, from 16.7% at December 31, 2014. We review specific receivables periodically to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable based on the change in days sales outstanding. The increase in the inventory reserves resulted primarily from an approximate $ 18.6 million write-down related to our shift away from consumer products. The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory . See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow A summary of the components of cash flows is shown below in Table 1 6. Table 1 6 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (3,128) $ 51,111 $ 25,184 Cash used in investing activities (120,855) (375,441) (173,757) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (2,157) 308,582 298,696 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (3,079) (5,706) 334 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (129,219) $ (21,454) $ 150,457 Cash flow from operations Table 17 summarizes the components of cash provided by or used in operating activities for 2015, 2014 and 2013 . Table 1 7 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Net income (loss) $ (663,925) 11,946 $ 44,119 Non-cash charges 696,093 76,262 55,771 Changes in working capital (35,296) (37,097) (74,706) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (3,128) 51,111 $ 25,184 For further discussion of net income (loss), see Net income (loss) ; net income (loss) available to 3D Systems common stockholders above. Non-cash charges primarily consist of goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation and inventory obsolescence and revaluation. 40 For further discussion of changes in working capital, see Liquidity and Capital Resources above. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow from investing activities Table 18 summarizes the components of cash used in investing activities for 2015, 2014 and 2013 . Table 1 8 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash assumed $ (91,799) $ (345,361) $ (162,318) Purchases of property and equipment (22,399) (22,727) (6,972) Proceeds from disposition of property and equipment 1,882 Other investing activities (5,750) (6,600) (4,701) Additions to license and patent costs (907) (753) (1,648) Net cash used in investing activities $ (120,855) $ (375,441) $ (173,757) As discussed below, we completed 25 acquisitions during 2015, 2014 and 2013. The majority of the acquisitions have resulted in the recording of goodwill. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase price for these businesses reflects a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiples to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which we acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. See Note 2, 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 2015 acquisitions We acquired 4 businesses in 2015 for cash consideration of $91.8 million, net of cash acquired, with an additional $0.7 million of consideration paid in the form of forgiveness of a note. Two of the acquisitions were related to expanding our software solutions, one acquisition was related to expanding our global on-demand parts services and printer sales footprint, and one acquisition was related to expanding our offering related to the education marketplace opportunity . See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 2014 acquisitions We acquired 10 businesses in 2014 for cash consideration of $345.4 million, net of cash acquired, with an additional $24.6 million of consideration paid in the form of common stock. Five of the acquisitions were related to expanding our global on-demand parts services, two of the acquisitions were related to enhancing our healthcare offerings , two of the acquisitions were related to consumer and retail products and services, and one acquisition was related to our materials business . 2013 acquisitions We acquired 11 businesses in 2013 for cash consideration of $162.3 million, net of cash acquired, with an additional $13.1 million of consideration paid in the form of common stock. Four of the acquisitions were related to enhancing 3D printer penetration through new products and materials, three of the acquisitions were related to expanding and enhancing 3D consumer and retail products and services, two of the acquisitions were related to expanding our global on-demand parts services and two acquisitions were related to expanding our printer sales footprint . Capital expenditures in 2015, 2014 and 2013 primarily consisted of expenditures for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructure, equipment to support our on-demand parts service and printers associated with new product development efforts . Other investing activities consist of minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures, our venture investment initiative, in promising enterprises that we believe will benefit from or be powered by our technologies. 41 See Note s 2, 3, 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash flow from financing activities Table 19 summarizes the components of cash provided by financing activities for 2015, 2014 and 2013 . Table 1 9 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Tax benefits (provision) from share-based payment arrangements $ (1,243) $ 7,653 $ 26,038 Proceeds from exercise of restricted stock, net 135 1,896 902 Proceeds from issuance of common stock 299,729 272,076 Cash disbursed in lieu of fractional shares related to stock split (176) Restricted cash 13 Repayment of capital lease obligations (1,049) (696) (157) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities $ (2,157) $ 308,582 $ 298,696 We may issue additional securities in the form of equity offerings from time to time as necessary to provide flexibility to execute our growth strategy . No shares were issued in 2015. We issued approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $299.7 million in 2014 and approximately 8.6 million shares of common stock, resulting in approximately $272.1 million in 2013. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off balance sheet arrangements in existence at December 31, 201 5 . Contractual Commitments Our principal commitments at December 31, 2015 consisted of the capital lease on our Rock Hill facility, operating leases, earnouts on acquisitions and purchase obligations, which are discussed in greater detail below. Tables 20 and 21 below summarize our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 . Table 20 Years Ending December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2016 2017-2018 2019-2020 Later Years Total Capitalized lease obligations $ 1,056 $ 2,162 $ 2,088 $ 8,229 $ 13,535 Non-cancelable operating leases 10,817 16,589 10,305 11,432 49,143 Purchase obligations 50,663 50,663 Earnouts and deferred payments related to acquisitions 159 9,673 9,832 Total $ 62,695 $ 28,424 $ 12,393 $ 19,661 $ 123,173 42 Debt and lease obligations Debt In November 2011, we issued $152.0 million of 5.50% senior convertible notes due December 2016. The notes were issued with an effective yield of 5.96% based upon an original issue discount at 98.0%. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, after deducting original issue discount and capitalized issuance costs of $6.6 million, amounted to $145.4 million. The net proceeds of the notes were used to fund the acquisition of Z Corp and Vidar and for general corporate purposes. During the third quarte r of 2014, the remaining $12.5 million of outstanding notes were conver ted, reflecting a loss of $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to a loss of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31 , 201 5 , there is no outstanding balance for the n otes. In October 2014 , we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility with PNC Bank, as Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders. The agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, the Company may, at its option and subject to customary conditions, request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility b y an additional $75.0 million. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility. Based on current financial covenant limitations at December 31, 2015, availability on the Credit Facility would be approximately $150.0 million. Future results may positively or negatively impact availability. See Note 11 to the Financial Statements. Leases Our capitalized lease obligations include lease agreements that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions . In accordance with ASC 840 , Leases, we are considered an o wner of the properties, therefore , we have recorded the amounts shown below in Table 21 as building in our c onsolidated balance s heet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the c onsolidated b alance s heet. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our outstanding capitalized lease obligations at December 3 1 , 20 15 and December 31, 20 14 were as follows: Table 21 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 Capitalized lease obligations: Current portion of capitalized lease obligations $ 529 $ 529 Capitalized lease obligations, long-term portion 8,187 8,905 Total capitalized lease obligations $ 8,716 $ 9,434 The decrease in total capitalized lease obligations is primarily due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. We lease certain other facilities under non-cancelable operating leases expiring through 2024 . The leases are generally on a net-rent basis, under which we pay taxes, maintenance and insurance. Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 20 13 was $14.0 million, $10.4 million and $6.9 million , r espectively . Other contractual commitments The Company has supply commitments for printer assemblies that total $50.7 million and $56.6 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout and deferred purchase payment provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesse s can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities rec orded for these earnouts and deferred payments is $9.8 million at December 31, 2015 compared to $9.2 million at December 31, 2014 . See Note s 3 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of acquisiti ons and related commitments . 43 The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require us to acquire their ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement, and we have a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 22 to the Financial Statements. Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by us at December 31 , 2015, performs over the relevant future periods at their forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require us, in future periods, to pay a maximum of approximately $ 8.9 million to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at December 31 , 2015 and December 31, 2014 . Indemnification In the normal course of business we periodically enter into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant. We are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, we have directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable us to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and to the policy limits. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. There were no foreign exchange contracts at December 31 , 2015 or 2014. We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized ) in interest and other expense , net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) . Changes in the fair value of derivatives are re corded in interest and other expense, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our C onsolidated B alance S heets. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates The discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition set forth in this Form 10-K is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make critical accounting estimates that directly impact our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. 44 Critical accounting estimates are estimates that meet two criteria: The estimates require that we make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimates are made; and There exist different estimates that could reasonably be used in the current period, or changes in the estimates used are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, both of which would have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition, the allowance for doubtful accounts, income taxes, inventories, pensions, goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets and contingencies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following paragraphs discuss the items that we believe are the critical accounting policies most affected by significant management estimates and judgments. Management has discussed and periodically reviews these critical accounting policies, the basis for their underlying assumptions and estimates and the nature of our related disclosures herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Revenue recognition Net revenue is derived primarily from the sale of products and services. The following revenue recognition policies define the manner in which we account for sales transactions. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of a sale arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services are rendered, the sales price or fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. We sell our products through our direct sales force and through authorized resellers. We recognize revenue on sales to reseller partners at the time of sale when the partner has economic substance apart from us, and we have completed our obligations related to the sale . We enter into sales arrangements that may provide for multiple deliverables to a customer. Sales of printers may include ancillary equipment, print materials, warranties on the equipment, training and installation. We identify all goods and/or services that are to be delivered separately under a sales arrangement and allocate revenue to each deliverable based on either vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) or if VSOE is not determinable then we use best estimated selling price (BESP) of each deliverable. We establish VSOE of selling price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the deliverable was sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. We consider multiple factors including, but not limited to, market conditions, geographies, competitive landscape, and entity-specific factors such as internal costs, gross margin objectives and pricing practices when estimating BESP. Consideration in a multiple element arrangement is then allocated to the elements on a relative sales value basis using either VSOE or BESP for all the elements. We also evaluate the impact of undelivered items on the functionality of delivered items for each sales transaction and, where appropriate, defer revenue on delivered items when that functionality has been affected. Functionality is determined to be met if the delivered products or services represent a separate earnings process . Hardware In general, revenues are separated between printers and other products, print materials, training services, maintenance services and installation services. The allocated revenue for each deliverable is then recognized based on relative fair values of the components of the sale, consistent within the scope of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 605 Revenue Recognition . Under our standard terms and conditions of sale, title and risk of loss transfers to the customer at the time product is shipped to the customer and revenue is recognized accordingly, unless customer acceptance is uncertain or significant obligations remain. We defer the estimated revenue associated with post-sale obligations that are not essential to the functionality of the delivered items, and recognize revenue in the future as the conditions for revenue recognition are met. 45 Software We also market and sell software tools that enable our customers to capture and customize content using our printers, as well as reverse engineering and inspection software. The software does not require significant modification or customization. We apply the guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition (ASC 985) in recognizing revenue when software is more than incidental to the product or service as a whole based on fair value using vendor-specific objective evidence. Revenue from perpetual software licenses is recognized either upon delivery of the product or delivery of a key code which allows the customer to access the software. In instances where software access is provided for a trial period, revenue is not recognized until the customer has purchased the software at the expiration of the trial period. We use the residual method to allocate revenue to software licenses at the inception of the license term when VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, such as maintenance, exists and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. In instances in which customers purchase post sale support, it is considered a separate element from the software and is deferred at the time of sale and subsequently amortized in future periods . We also sell equipment with embedded software to our customers. The embedded software is not sold separately, it is not a significant focus of the marketing effort and we do not provide post-contract customer support specific to the software or incur significant costs that are within the scope of ASC 985. Additionally, the functionality that the software provides is marketed as part of the overall product. The software embedded in the equipment is incidental to the equipment as a whole such that ASC 985 is not applicable. Sales of these products are recognized in accordance with ASC 605-25, Multiple-Element Arrangements. Services Printers and certain other products include a warranty under which we provide maintenance for periods up to one year, as well as training, installation and non-contract maintenance services. We defer this portion of the revenue at the time of sale based on the relative fair value of these services. Deferred revenue is recognized ratably according to the term of the warranty. Costs associated with our obligations during the warranty period are expensed as incurred. After the initial warranty period, we offer these customers optional maintenance contracts. Deferred maintenance revenue is recognized ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the period of the contract , and costs ass ociated with these contracts are recognized as incurred. Revenue from training, installation and non-contract maintenance services is recognized at the time of performance . On- demand parts service sales and healthcare servic es are included within services revenue and revenue is recognized upon shipment or delivery of the parts, based on the terms of the sales arrangement . Terms of sale Shipping and handling costs billed to customers for equipment sales and sales of print materials are included in product revenue in the consolidated statements of operations and other comprehensive income (loss). Costs we incur associated with shipping and handling are included in product cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations and other comprehensive income (loss). Credit is extended, and creditworthiness is determined, based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition. New customers are generally required to complete a credit application and provide references and bank information to facilitate an analysis of creditworthiness. Customers with a favorable profile may receive credit terms that differ from our general credit terms. Creditworthiness is considered, among other things, in evaluating our relationship with customers with past due balances. Our terms of sale generally require payment within 30 to 60 days after shipment of a product, although we also recognize that longer payment periods are customary in some countries where we transact business. To reduce credit risk in connection with printer sales, we may, depending upon the circumstances, require significant deposits prior to shipment and may retain a security interest in a system sold until fully paid. In some circumstances, we may require payment in full for our products prior to shipment and may require international customers to furnish letters of credit. For maintenance services, we either bill customers on a time-and-materials basis or sell customers service agreements that are recorded as deferred revenue and provide for payment in advance on either an annual or other periodic basis . 46 Allowance for doubtful accounts In evaluating the collectability of our accounts receivable, we assess a number of factors, including specific customers abilities to meet their financial obligations to us, the length of time receivables are past due and historical collection experience. Based on these assessments, we may record a reserve for specific customers, as well as a general reserve and allowance for returns and discounts. If circumstances related to specific customers change, or economic conditions deteriorate such that our past collection experience is no longer relevant, our estimate of the recoverability of our accounts receivable could be further reduced from the levels provided for in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate specific accounts for which we believe a customer may have an inability to meet their financial obligations (for example, aging over 90 days past due or bankruptcy). In t hese cases, we use our judgment, based on available facts and circumstances, and record a specific reserve for that customer to reduce the receivable to an amount we expect to collect . These specific reserves are re - evaluated and adjusted as additional information is received that impacts the amount reserved. Further, a reserve based on historical experience is established for all customers , as well as an allowance for returns and discounts , to supplement our specific account-level assessment. Our ba d debt expense was $3.8 million, $8.7 million and $5.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 . We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is a critical accounting estimate because it is susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur and because the impact of recognizing additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. See Liquidity and Capital Resources above. Income taxes We and our domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries file income tax returns in their respective local jurisdictions. We provide for income taxes on those portions of our foreign subsidiaries accumulated earnings (deficit) that we believe are not reinvested indefinitely in their business es . We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax benefit carryforwards. Deferred income tax liabilities and assets at the end of each period are determined using enacted tax rates. Under the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes, w e establish a v aluation allowance for those jurisdictions in which the expiration date of tax benefit carryforwards or projected taxable earnings leads us to conclude that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The evaluation process includes the consideration of all available evidence regarding historical results and future projections including the estimated timing of reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and potential tax planning strategies. Once a valuation allowance is established, it is maintained until a change in factual circumstances gives rise to sufficient income of the appropriate character and timing that will allow a partial or full utilization of the deferred tax asset. Based upon our recent results of operations and its expected profitability in the future, we have concluded that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized in certain jurisdictions, including the US and certain foreign jurisdictions, and as such, we recorded a $107.3 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. See Notes 2 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that our estimate of deferred income tax assets and our maintenance of a valuation allowance against such assets are critical accounting estimates because they are subject to, among other things, an estimate of future taxable income in the U.S. and in other non-U.S. tax jurisdictions, which are susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur, and because the impact of our valuation allowance may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. The determination of our income tax provision is complex because we have operations in numerous tax jurisdictions outside the U.S. that are subject to certain risks that ordinarily would not be expected in the U.S. Tax regimes in certain jurisdictions are subject to significant changes, which may be applied on a retroactive basis. If this were to occur, our tax expense could be materially different than the amounts reported. 47 We periodically estimate the probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and our informed judgment. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretation of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we transact business. The judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, regulations. Income tax expense is adjusted in the period in which these events occur, and these adjustments are included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) . If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate may increase or decrease in any period. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined predomina n tly on the first-in, first-out method. Reserves for inventories are provided based on historical experience and current product demand. We evaluate the adequacy of these reserves quarterly. Our determination of the allowance for inventory reserves is subject to change because it is based on managements current estimates of required reserves and potential adjustments. We believe that the allowance for inventory obsolescence is a critical accounting estimate because it is susceptible to change and dependent upon events that may or may not occur and because the impact of recognizing additional obsolescence reserves may be material to the assets reported on our balance sheet and in our results of operations. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Goodwill reflects the excess of the consideration transferred plus the fair value of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but rather is tested for impairment annually, or whenever events or circumstances present an indication of impairment. Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. The primary items that generate goodwill include the value of the synergies between the acquired companies and us and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies for recognition as an intangible asset. The annual impairment testing required by ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other requires us to use judgment and could require us to write down the carrying value of our goodwill in future periods. We allocate goodwill to our identifiable geographic reporting units, the Americas, EMEA and APAC regions, which are tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step requires comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with the carrying amount, including goodwill. If that fair value exceeds the carrying amount, the second step of the process is not required to be performed, and no impairment charge is required to be recorded. If that fair value does not exceed that carrying amount, we must perform the second step, which requires an allocation of the fair value of the reporting unit to all assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a purchase business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price. The goodwill resulting from that purchase price allocation is then compared to the carrying amount with any excess recorded as an impairment charge. The evaluation of goodwill impairment requires us to make assumptions about future cash flows of the reporting unit being evaluated that include, among others, growth in revenues, margins realized, level of operating expenses and cost of capital. These assumptions require significant judgment and actual results may differ from assumed and estimated amounts. Goodwill set forth on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 arose from acquisitions carried out from 2009 t o 2015 and in years prior to December 31, 2007. Goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 2007 was allocated to geographic reporting units based on the percentage of SLS printers then installed by geographic area. Goodwill arising from acquisitions in 2009 t o 2015 was allocated to geographic reporting units based on geographic dispersion of the acquired companies sales or capitalization at the time of their acquisition . We conducted our annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2015. The results of the first step of our annual impairment testing indicated the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the Americas and EMEA reporting units exceeded fair value and that the carrying amo unt of goodwill assigned to APAC did not exceed fair value. Based on these results , management completed the second step of annual impairment testing for the Americas and EMEA reporting units. Management determined that the fair value associated with goodwill assigned to the Americas was zero, resulting in a non-tax deductible impairment charge of $382.3 million . Management determined that the carrying amount of the goodwill assigned to the EMEA reporting unit exceeded fair value by approximately 29 % , resulting in a non-tax deductible impairment charge of $61.4 million . See Note s 2 and 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 48 When evaluating the fair value of geographic reporting units, we use a discounted cash flow model, which incorporates judgement and the use of estimates by management. Management bases its fair value estimates on assumptions that we believe are reasonable, but are uncertain and subject to changes in market conditions. Within these assumptions, management considered market conditions, the companys market capitalization over sustained periods, the evolving 3D printing industry and near-term demand outlook, changes in forecasts and timing for devel oping products and applications . Key assumptions used to determine the estimated fair value include: (a) expected cash flow for the ten -year period following the testing date (including market share, sales volumes and prices, costs to produce and estimated capital needs); (b) an e stimated terminal value using terminal year growth rate s ranging from 4.9% to 5.3 % , determined based on the expected growth prospects of the reporting unit s; and (c) discount rate s ranging from 12.75 % to 13.5%, based on managements best estimate of the after-tax weighted average cost of capital. We will continue to monitor our reporting units in an effort to determine whether events and circumstances warrant further interim impairment testing. We could be required to write off or write down additional amounts in the future in the event of deterioration in our future performance, sustained slower growth or other circumstances. There was no goodwill impairment for the years ended December 31, 2014 or 2013. Other Intangible Assets Intangible assets other than goodwill primarily represent acquired intangible assets including licenses, patent costs, acquired technology, internally developed technology, customer relationships, non-compete agreements, trade names and trademarks. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful life, which is determined by identifying the period over which most of the cash flows are expected to be generated. For intangibles with finite lives, we review the carrying amounts for potential impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Examples of such a change in circumstances include a significant decrease in selling price, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used, or a significant adverse change in the legal or business climate. In evaluating recoverability, we group assets and liabilities at the lowest level such that the identifiable cash flows relating to the group are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We then compare the carrying amounts of the assets or asset groups with the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows. In the event impairment exists, an impairment charge is recorded as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the fair value. Fair value is determined by reference to estimated selling values of assets in similar condition or by using a discounted cash flow model. In addition, the remaining amortization period for the impaired asset would be reassessed and, if necessary, revised. During the fourth quarter of 2015 we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $93.5 million as a result of our other intangible assets impairment testing. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or whenever events or circumstances present an indication of impairment. We apply ASC 350 , which permits us to make a qualitative assessment of whether the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, or opt to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to determine the indefinite-lived intangible assets fair value. If we determine , based on the qualitative tests, that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, no further action is required. Otherwise, we are required to perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the indefinite-life intangible asset to the indefinite-lived intangible asset carrying amount. In the event impairment exists, an impairment charge is recorded as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the fair value. No impairment charges for intangible assets with indefinite lives were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2015. See Note s 2 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock-based compensation ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, (ASC 718) requires the recognition of the fair value of stock-based compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the awards expected to vest and recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period of the award. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Contingencies We account for contingencies in accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies (ASC 450). ASC 450 requires that we record an estimated loss from a loss contingency when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for contingencies such as legal matters requires us to use our judgment. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for recently issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and expected impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption.