Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as believes, belief, expects, may, will, estimates, intends, anticipates, or plans or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon managements beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or to individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this discussion. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business General 3D Systems Corporation (3D Systems or the Company or we or us) provides comprehensive 3D printing and digital manufacturing solutions, including 3D printers for plastics, metals, wax and bioinks, materials, software, advanced manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our solutions support advanced applications in two key industry verticals: Healthcare (which includes dental, medical devices, personalized health services and regenerative medicine) and Industrial (which includes aerospace, defense, transportation and general manufacturing). We market our products and services through subsidiaries and channel partners in North America and South America (collectively referred to as Americas), Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and Asia-Pacific and Oceania (collectively referred to as "APAC"). Business Strategy Accelerating Additive Manufacturing Adoption We partner with customers to enable them to adopt and scale additive manufacturing in their production environments. We believe that our additive manufacturing capabilities can help customers solve a number of design and manufacturing challenges such as improved lead times, enhanced design freedom, part consolidation and the ability for mass customization. We believe we have both the scale and the breadth of technologies, encompassing hardware platforms, materials and software, that our customers require for the successful implementation of additive manufacturing into their design and manufacturing processes. Using a strong application focus in each of our two business segments, we integrate our printer, material and software technologies in unique combinations to solve a customers product need. Once complete, we can scale the process for the customer to a certain production level through our Advanced Manufacturing solutions, and, with increasing demand, we can enable a customer to continue scaling to high volumes. This transfer of the workflow involves providing the printing systems, materials and software, along with the process definition, that results in a seamless transfer of capability to the manufacturer. We expect the result of this approach to drive recurring revenue streams as customers adopt additive manufacturing solutions and consume materials to produce parts, utilize software to manage the print process and manufacturing operations, and make use of our service offerings for maintenance and upgrades. Our proficiency in providing industry focused application and solution development for customers includes a number of internal assets and capabilities, including: a. A full range of additive manufacturing hardware technologies and materials to address needs in metals, plastics, wax and bioprinting b. A services infrastructure that includes industry and technology application experts, customer innovation and advanced manufacturing centers and post-sale service and support c. A software suite that enables end-to-end additive manufacturing including design, simulation, process management and manufacturing execution 4 d. Scale that includes significant and diverse experience in production parts and applications combined with a global reach to service our customers worldwide As part of our strategy to enable customers to adopt additive manufacturing, in November 2021 we acquired Oqton, a software company that is a leader in the creation of a new breed of intelligent, cloud-based Manufacturing Operating System (MOS) platform. This platform is tailored for flexible production environments that increasingly utilize a range of advanced manufacturing and automation technologies, including additive manufacturing solutions, in their production workflows. The cloud-based solution leverages the Industrial Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, and machine learning technologies to deliver solutions to customers seeking to automate their digital manufacturing workflows, scale their operations and enhance their competitive position. In addition, in May 2021, we announced the acquisition of Additive Works, a Germany-based software company focused upon simulation-based optimization and automation of the additive manufacturing print preparation and workflow. This highly automated simulation software increases productivity by reducing set-up time while improving product yield, throughput, and component performance. Investing in Regenerative Medicine As an early and continuing innovator in additive manufacturing, we have significant experience in bringing this technology to new markets. In 2021, we announced an expansion of our focus and investments in the application of additive manufacturing for regenerative medicine. Our approach in regenerative medicine involves three strategies. The first strategy is the use of additive manufacturing for human organ transplantation. Each year, end-stage organ failure kills millions of people. However, the supply of donated organs is insufficient to meet the needs of patients seeking transplantation. In 2021, we announced an expansion of our organ printing development program, including our work with a key strategic partner. This program was first established in 2017 and combines our 3D printing expertise with the regenerative medicine and biotechnology expertise of our partner. To date, our program has had a focus on developing the capability to print scaffolds for human lungs, with a long-term goal of allowing all patients with end-stage lung disease to receive transplants which will enable them to enjoy long and active lives. Based upon the progress made toward this goal, the program was expanded to include two additional human organs. Our second strategy involves the application of our bio-printing technology to non-organ human applications. We are focused on internal development, often in conjunction with strategic or development partners, of applications that combine our bio-printing and materials expertise with the application expertise of our partners. Our third regenerative medicine strategy extends our bio-printing technologies into research labs, providing advanced printing systems and unique biological materials to those that advance the science of medicine. We believe our ability to print high-precision, three-dimensional vascularized cellular structures can be used in a number of research areas such as the development of new, more effective drug therapies. To support our regenerative medicine efforts, in December 2021 we acquired Volumetric, a biotech company whose mission is to develop the ability to manufacture human organs using bioprinting methods and the underlying technologies required to create these highly complex biological structures. This acquisition is expected to supplement and expand our existing capabilities in bioprinting and regenerative medicine. In addition, in May 2021, we announced the acquisition of Allevi, a developer of bioprinting solutions, comprising of bioprinters, biomaterials, and specialized laboratory software. Products We offer our customers a comprehensive range of 3D printers, materials, software, and digital design tools. 3D Printers and Materials Our 3D printers transform digital data input generated by 3D design software, Computer Aided Design (CAD) software or other 3D design tools, into printed parts using several unique print engines that employ proprietary, additive layer by layer building processes with a variety of materials. As part of our solutions oriented strategy, we offer a broad range of 3D printing technologies including Stereolithography (SLA), Selective Laser Sintering, Direct Metal Printing, MultiJet Printing, ColorJet Printing and extrusion and SLA based bioprinting. Our printers utilize a wide range of materials, the majority of which are proprietary materials that we develop, blend, and market. Our comprehensive range of materials includes plastic, nylon, metal, composite, elastomeric, wax, polymeric dental materials and biocompatible materials. We augment and complement our portfolio of engineered materials with materials that we purchase or develop with third parties under private label and distribution arrangements. 5 We work closely with our customers to optimize the performance of our materials in their applications. Our expertise in materials science and formulation, combined with our processes, software and equipment, enables us to provide unique solutions and help our customers select the material that best meets their needs with optimal cost and performance results. As part of our solutions approach, our currently offered printers, with the exception of direct metal printers and bioprinters, have built-in intelligence to make them integrated, closed systems. For these integrated printers, we furnish materials specifically designed for use in those printers, which are packaged in smart cartridges and utilize material delivery systems. These integrated materials are designed to enhance system functionality, productivity, reliability and materials' shelf life, in addition to providing our customers with a built-in quality management system and a fully integrated workflow solution. For our bioprinting solutions, we also offer research protocols that include bioink, consumable and reagent recommendations. These protocols cover pre-print preparation of cells and biomaterials, 3D printing parameter setting, and post-print processes. Our protocols are utilized by research organizations to run experiments, share research findings, and enhance the utilization of our bioprinters. Software and Related Products We provide digital design tools, including software, scanners and haptic devices. We offer solutions for product design, simulation, mold and die design, 3D scan-to-print, reverse engineering, production machining, metrology, inspection and manufacturing workflows. These products are designed to enable a seamless workflow for customers and are marketed under brand names such as Geomagic. We also offer 3D Sprint and 3DXpert, proprietary software to prepare and optimize CAD data and manage the additive manufacturing processes. These software products provide automated support building and placement, build platform management, print simulation and print queue management capabilities. The outcome is the ability to improve the quality of prints, optimize design structure, shorten design to manufacturing lead time and minimize manufacturing costs. For our bioprinters, we offer Bioprint Pro as a software solution that allows researchers to design and bioprint repeatable experiments. Bioprint Pro includes experiment-based workflows, basic CAD modeling, and optimized biomaterial presets. Services Maintenance and Training Services We provide a variety of customer services, local application support and field support on a worldwide basis for our products, including installation of new printers at customers sites, maintenance agreements, periodic hardware upgrades and software updates. We also provide services to assist our customers and partners in developing new applications for our technologies, to facilitate the use of our technology for specific applications, to train customers on the use of our printers and to maintain our printers at customers sites. We provide these services, spare parts and field support either directly or through a network of reseller partners. We employ customer-support sales engineers to support our worldwide customer base, and we seek to continue to strengthen and enhance our partner network and service offerings. Our 3D printers are sold with a warranty period ranging from 90 days to one year. After the warranty period, we generally offer service contracts that enable our customers to continue service and maintenance coverage. These service contracts are offered with various levels of support and options, and are priced accordingly. One entitlement of our service contracts is our service engineers provide regularly scheduled preventive maintenance visits to customer sites. Additionally, we provide training to our partners to enable them to also perform these services. Another contract entitlement on select printer models is proactive remote troubleshooting capability through our 3DConnect Service IoT platform. From time to time, we also offer upgrade kits for certain of our printers that enable our existing customers to take advantage of new or enhanced printer capabilities. In some cases, we have discontinued upgrade support and maintenance agreements for certain of our older legacy printers. Advanced Manufacturing As part of our strategy to help customers adopt additive manufacturing, we offer advanced manufacturing services through facilities in the Americas and EMEA regions. These facilities supplement customer manufacturing environments by allowing them to test and ramp production using our solutions before transitioning production to their environment. This allows us to provide application and production expertise and refine the production process as part of our solutions approach. As the process is validated and volumes ramp, customers may choose to move production to their facilities using equipment, materials, software and services that they purchase from us. These facilities operate under stringent quality systems and are also utilized by customers in regulated industries such as healthcare and aerospace & defense for sustained outsourced production of 6 hundreds of thousands of parts per year. Software Services In addition to our software license products, we offer software maintenance and cloud-software subscriptions, which includes updates and support for our licensed software products. Our licensed software is sold with a maintenance service that generally covers a period of one year. After this initial period, we offer single and multi-year maintenance contracts that enable our customers to continue coverage. These software service contracts typically include free software updates and various levels of technical support. In addition, we offer Oqton as a cloud based-manufacturing operating system designed to automate digital production workflows, enable machine monitoring, end-to-end manufacturing visibility and production traceability. For our cloud subscription solutions, customer support and software updates are included as part of the solution. Healthcare Services As part of our precision healthcare services, we provide surgical planning, modeling, prototyping and manufacturing services. We offer printing and finishing of medical and dental devices, anatomical models and surgical guides and tools, as well as modeling, design and planning services, including VSP surgical planning solutions. Global Operations We operate in the Americas, EMEA and APAC regions, and market our products and services in those areas as well as to other parts of the world. In maintaining operations outside the United States (the U.S.), we expose our business to risks inherent in such operations, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. Information on foreign exchange risk appears in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Part II, Item 7A,