ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and other information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition to historical data, this discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects based on current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the sections titled Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. This section discusses items pertaining to and comparisons of financial results between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022. A discussion of fiscal 2022 items and comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 financial results can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 (the 2022 MD&A), filed with the SEC on May 27, 2022. OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of software-as-a-service solutions for contact center, voice communications, video meetings, employee collaboration, and embeddable communication application program interfaces ("APIs"). Our solutions empower workforces worldwide by connecting individuals and teams so they can collaborate faster, work smarter, and better serve customers, from any location. The communications capabilities and advanced AI/ML (artificial intelligence/machine learning) technologies of our contact center, communication and collaboration solutions are integrated into a comprehensive cloud-based offering powered by our global communications platform, which together comprise our 8x8 XCaaS platform solution. The XCaaS platform delivers our unified communications (UCaaS), contact center (CCaaS) and communication APIs (CPaaS) services and includes AI-driven digital assistance, intuitive user interfaces, and real-time business analytics and intelligence, enabling organizations of all sizes to design, deploy and adapt tailored communications and workflows for differentiated employee and customer experiences. The 8x8 XCaaS platform offers a complete cloud technology stack. It delivers the security, scalability, high availability, and ease-of-use of a modern cloud-based architecture while masking the complexity of a global communications infrastructure. A consistent data layer across the platform powers 8x8 AI/ML algorithms, as well as vertical-specific and purpose-built AI applications from our ecosystem of technology partners, to deliver data-driven business insights and intelligent integrated applications that drive employee productivity, resource optimization, and more effective end-customer interactions through simplified and automated workflows. Built from core cloud technologies that we own and manage internally and integrated with third-party applications from our technology partners, our XCaaS platform enables agile workplaces and fosters seamless communications and collaboration between an organizations customers, contact center agents, and employees, regardless of geographic location. Our customers use our XCaaS platform to create tailored employee and customer experiences that increase productivity, improve responsiveness, and elevate customer and employee satisfaction and loyalty. Our service plans are structured with increasing levels of functionality and are designated as X1, X2, etc., through X8, based on the specific communication needs and customer engagement profile of each user. Because our XCaaS platform includes UCaaS, CCaaS and CPaaS and serves as a single integration framework for communications across an organization, customers can reduce costs associated with provisioning and management, increase customization based on use cases, and facilitate compliance with security and data privacy requirements on a global scale. In fiscal 2023, we introduced platform-wide integration of generative AI from OpenAI, making it easier for organizations to unlock the potential of generative AI to personalize self-service, bot-based and agent-based customer engagements. The XCaaS platform also integrates with a growing ecosystem of third-party applications, ranging from purpose-built and vertically-focused AI-based applications to broadly deployed customer relationship management (CRM) platforms and leading customer engagement and workforce management software. Our open approach to third party integrations and platform-wide enablement of generative AI, combined with flexibility to mix and match functionality based on users communication requirements and customer engagement profiles, allows organizations of all sizes to design and deploy tailored user experiences previously reserved to very large enterprises. Our customers range from small businesses to large enterprises across all vertical markets, with users in more than 180 countries. In recent years, we have increased our focus on mid-market, small and medium enterprise, and public sector customers because these organizations typically have more complex communication and contact center requirements compared to the needs of small business customers. Organizations in these sectors typically with 500 to 10,000 employees -- are more likely to adopt multiple services and realize greater value from our unified, global communications platform and portfolio of AI-enabled solutions. 29 We generate service revenue from subscriptions to our communications services subscriptions and platform usage. We generate other revenue from professional services and the sale of office phones and other hardware equipment. We define a customer as one or more legal entities to which we provide services pursuant to a single contractual arrangement. In some cases, we may have multiple billing relationships with a single customer (for example, where we establish separate billing accounts for a parent company and each of its subsidiaries). In January 2022, we acquired Fuze, Inc. ("Fuze"), a competitor in enterprise-grade unified communications-as-a-service (UCaaS), for approximately $213.8 million in stock and cash. The acquisition of Fuze increased our installed base of enterprise customers and added research and development resources that enabled us to accelerate innovation on our XCaaS platform. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK In fiscal 2023, our total revenue grew $105.8 million, or approximately 16.6% year-over-year, to $743.9 million. Excluding revenue from the Fuze customer base, our total revenue increased approximately 3% for the year ended March 31, 2023. Our service revenue grew $107.7 million, or approximately 17.9% year-over-year, to $710.0 million. Excluding revenue from Fuze customers, our service revenue grew approximately 4% for the year ended March 31, 2023. As part of our long-term strategy to expand our enterprise customer base, grow our revenue, and increase our profitability and cash flow, we have focused on reducing the cost of delivering our services and improving our sales efficiency while increasing our investment in research and development. To improve our sales efficiency, we have focused our sales and marketing resources on mid-market and enterprise customers, since these customers are likely to derive the greatest benefit from our unified XCaaS platform. We have also expanded our partner programs to extend our reach within this market, placing increased emphasis on developing a community of value-added resellers who provide implementation services and Tier 1 customer support in addition to sales. To support our customers and partners, we are expanding our customer success organization and investing in improvements to our back-office processes in order to increase our operational efficiency over time. We believe that continued innovation is a critical factor in attracting and retaining mid-market and enterprise customers and is an important variable in achieving sustainable growth. We are committed to maintaining a high level of investment in engineering to deliver product innovation across our XCaaS platform, expand our ecosystem of integrations, and maintain the high availability our customers require. Approximately two-thirds of our investment in research and development is focused on extending the contact center capabilities of our XCaaS platform, including AI integrations, advanced data capture and analytics. We use annualized recurring and usage revenue ("ARR") to measure the success of our strategy to attract and retain customers. Total ARR at the end of fiscal 2023 was $703 million and increased 2% from the end of fiscal 2022. ARR from mid-market and enterprise customers represented 76% of total ARR and increased 3% compared to the end of fiscal 2022. We define enterprise customers as customers generating more than $100,000 in ARR, mid-market as customers with ARR between $25,000 and $100,000, and small business as customers with up to $25,000 in ARR. Mid-market customers, often become enterprise customers over time as they expand their deployments and adopt more solutions from our XCaaS portfolio. ARR from enterprise customers has increased steadily as a percentage of total ARR, increasing from 35% of total ARR in fiscal 2019 to 58% of total ARR at the end of fiscal 2023. We have increased our focus on mid-market and enterprise customers because these organizations typically have more complex communication and contact center requirements compared to the needs of small business customers. ARR associated with small business customers was 24% of total ARR for fiscal 2023. We remain committed to retaining our installed base of small business customers but have reduced sales and marketing investment in attracting new small business UCaaS-only customers. See "Key Business Metrics" section below for further discussion on how we define ARR. In August 2022, we refinanced approximately $403.8 million of the $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2024 Notes through an exchange for approximately $201.9 million in 2028 Notes plus approximately $181.8 million in cash. The cash payment was funded with the partial proceeds of a new $250.0 million senior secured term loan due in 2027 entered into in August 2022. Concurrently with the issuance of the 2028 Notes, we repurchased 10,695,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $60.0 million in privately negotiated transactions with a limited number of holders. In September 2022, December 2022 and February 2023, we repurchased $6.0 million, $21.8 million and $5.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes, respectively, in separate privately negotiated transactions. Approximately $63.3 million of the 2024 Notes remained outstanding as of March 31, 2023. See Note 7, Convertible Senior Notes, Term Loan and Capped Calls to our condensed consolidated financial statements for details. In May 2023, we voluntarily prepaid $25.0 million of principal on our senior secured term loan, reducing the total principal outstanding to $225 million. To align our resources with our long-term strategy to grow revenue and increase profits and cash flow through increased focus on mid-market and enterprise customers, we conducted two separate workforce reductions involving approximately 300 employees, primarily in the sales and marketing and general and administration functions. We expect these workforce reductions and accompanying organizational restructurings to align our resources to our critical areas of focus, including streamlining sales and marketing, enhancing customer support, accelerating innovation, and strengthening our financial position. IMPACT OF COVID-19 30 The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including those set forth under the section entitled "Risk Factors." KEY BUSINESS METRICS Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics to evaluate our operations, allocate resources, and drive financial performance in our business. Annualized Recurring Subscriptions and Usage Revenue Our management measures the success of our strategy to attract and retain customers by analyzing trends in ARR and believes ARR may be useful to investors in evaluating our performance. Our management believes ARR is an important indicator for measuring the overall performance of the business because it encompasses new customer additions, add-on sales, renewals and customer churn in a single metric. Our management uses trends in total ARR and ARR by customer segment to assess our ongoing operations, allocate resources, and drive the financial performance of the business. We define ARR as equal to the sum of the most recent month of (i) recurring subscription amounts and (ii) platform usage charges for all CPaaS customers (subject to a minimum billings threshold for a period of at least six consecutive months), multiplied by 12. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating ARR and caution that our presentation may not be consistent with that of other companies. For example, to the extent our ARR is used to evaluate trends in future revenue, such an evaluation would assume a sustained level of usage from existing customers which may fluctuate in future periods. COMPONENTS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Service Revenue Service revenue consists of communication services subscriptions, platform usage revenue, and related fees from our UCaaS, CCaaS, and CPaaS offerings. We plan to increase service revenue through a combination of new customer acquisition, cross-sell of additional products, including those resulting from our increased investment in innovation, to existing customers, geographic expansion of our customer base outside the United States, and innovation in product and technology, and through strategic acquisitions of technologies and businesses. Other Revenue Other revenue consists of revenue from professional services, primarily in support of deployment of our solutions and/or platform, and revenue from sales and rentals of IP telephones in conjunction with our cloud telephony service. Other revenue is dependent on the number of customers who choose to purchase or rent an IP telephone hardware in conjunction with our service instead of using the solution on their cell phone, computer, or other compatible device, and/or choose to engage our professional services organization for implementation and deployment of our cloud services. Cost of Service Revenue Cost of service revenue consists primarily of costs associated with network operations and related personnel, technology licenses, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, other communication origination and termination services provided by third-party carriers, outsourced customer service call center operations, and other costs such as customer service, and technical support costs. We allocate overhead costs, such as IT and facilities, to cost of service revenue, as well as to each of the operating expense categories, generally based on relative headcount. Our IT costs include costs for IT infrastructure and personnel. Facilities costs primarily consist of office leases and related expenses. Cost of Other Revenue Cost of other revenue consists primarily of direct and indirect costs associated with the purchase and shipping and handling of IP telephones as well as the scheduling, shipping and handling, personnel costs, and other expenditures incurred in connection with the professional services associated with the deployment and implementation of our products, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, third-party development, software and equipment costs necessary for us to conduct our product, platform development and engineering efforts, as well as allocated IT and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, sales commissions, including those to the channel, trade shows, advertising and other marketing, demand generation, and promotional expenses, as well as allocated IT and facilities costs. General and Administrative 31 General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, professional services fees, corporate administrative costs, tax and regulatory fees, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, consists primarily of interest expense related to our convertible notes and term loan, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, offset by gains on debt extinguishment, as well as other income. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of foreign income taxes and state minimum taxes in the United States. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, any changes in the United States and foreign taxation of such activities may increase our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance for our United States deferred tax assets, including federal and state non-operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal 2023 includes a full year of Fuze's results of operations. The results of operations for fiscal 2022, includes approximately ten weeks of Fuze's results of operations since its acquisition on January 18, 2022. Revenue Service revenue For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Service revenue $710,044 $602,357 $ 107,687 17.9 % Percentage of total revenue 95.4 % 94.4 % Service revenue increased for fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to a net increase in our installed base of mid-market and enterprise customers, expanded deployments by existing customers, and growth in related telecom usage by our customers.The increase in service revenue reflected increased sales of our UCaaS and CCaaS solutions, and increased adoption of our XCaaS integrated communication and collaboration platform. A substantial portion of the growth in service revenue for the year ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to Fuze, which contributed approximately an $86.5 million increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2022. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in usage revenue generated by our CPaaS products, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. We expect our service revenue to grow over time with our diverse platform offering as we increase the features and functionality of our platform, acquire new customers, increase cross-selling to our existing customers, and expand geographically outside the United States. Other revenue For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Other revenue $33,894 $35,773 $ (1,879) -5.3 % Percentage of total revenue 4.6 % 5.6 % Other revenue decreased by $1.9 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, due to a decrease in professional service revenue. Our business is diversified by vertical market and geography, and no single customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue during fiscal years 2023 and 2022. 32 Cost of Revenue Cost of service revenue For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Cost of service revenue $198,871 $195,909 $ 2,962 1.5 % Percentage of service revenue 28.0 % 32.5 % Cost of service revenue increased in dollars but decreased as a percentage of service revenue as we achieved operating efficiencies. The increase in cost of service during fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, was primarily due to increases of $2.7 million in amortization of intangibles, $2.6 million in employee and consulting costs, and $1.5 million in software costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $3.4 million in amortization of capitalized software. We expect cost of service revenue will increase in absolute dollars but generally remain consistent or decline as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Cost of other revenue For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Cost of other revenue $ 42,604 $ 51,649 $ (9,045) (17.5) % Percentage of other revenue 125.7 % 144.4 % Cost of other revenue decreased in dollars and as a percentage of other revenue in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to decreases in product costs and efficiencies in our professional services. Research and development For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Research and development $ 146,220 $ 112,387 $ 33,833 30.1 % Percentage of total revenue 19.7 % 17.6 % Research and development expenses increased in dollars and as percentage of revenue during fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to increases of $23.8 million in employee and consulting costs, $6.7 million in internally-developed software, $4.8 million in software licenses, and $3.6 million in public cloud hosting costs; primarily as a result of our acquisition of Fuze. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $3.1 million in stock-based compensation and $1.8 million in amortization of capitalized software. We plan to continue to invest in research and development to accelerate our efforts to expand the capabilities and scope of our XCaaS platform to enhance our users' experience. While we expect to continue to improve our overall cost structure and achieve operational efficiencies, we expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we continue to invest in our development efforts and vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in our development efforts. Sales and marketing For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Sales and marketing $311,883 $314,223 $ (2,340) (0.7) % Percentage of total revenue 41.9 % 49.2 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased in dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to decreases of $22.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, $6.6 million in employee and consulting costs, and $3.5 million in paid media and marketing services. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $17.8 million in commissions, $9.1 million in amortization of intangibles, and $3.5 million in amortization of deferred commissions. We expect sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue to decrease from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2024 as we achieve continued efficiencies in sales and marketing. 33 General and administrative For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 General and administrative $110,652 $118,103 $ (7,451) (6.3) % Percentage of total revenue 14.9 % 18.5 % General and administrative expenses decreased both in dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to decreases of $17.7 million in stock-based compensation expenses and $13.2 million in acquisition and integration costs related to the Fuze acquisition in fiscal 2022. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $13.1 million in personnel-related and consulting costs, $6.3 million in professional services fees, and $4.6 million in facilities and overhead costs. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue will decline over time as we achieve greater operational efficiencies. Other expense, net For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Other expense, net $(4,044) $ (21,629) $ 17,585 (81.3) % Percentage of total revenue (0.5) % (3.4) % Other expense, net decreased by $17.6 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to a $18.5 million gain from debt extinguishment from the 2024 Notes, $16.2 million decrease in debt amortization expenses as a result of exchange and subsequent repurchase of the 2024 Notes, $1.8 million gain from sale of intangibles, $1.0 million gain from foreign exchange transactions, and $0.4 million gain on remeasurement of the Warrants issued in connection with the Term Loan, Our decreases were partially offset by a $20.7 million increase in interest expenses primarily related to our Term Loan. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes For the years ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes $ 2,807 $ (387) $ 3,194 (825.3) % Percentage of total revenue 0.4 % (0.1) % For the year ended March 31, 2023, we recorded an income tax provision of $2.8 million compared to an income tax benefit of $0.4 million in fiscal 2022, primarily due to higher state and foreign income taxes. The higher state taxes were a result of change in U.S. tax laws requiring the capitalization and amortization of research and development costs, and the limitation of certain state net operating loss carryforwards that can be utilized to offset the additional taxable income. The higher foreign income taxes reflect the inclusion of the full year operational results of the foreign Fuze subsidiaries. We record deferred taxes based on differences between the financial statement basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities and available tax loss and credit carryforwards. In evaluating our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, we consider available evidence, both positive and negative, in determining future taxable income on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to remain in a cumulative pretax loss position, and therefore, continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our United States, United Kingdom, and Singapore deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had $137.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. In addition, we had $1.3 million in restricted cash in support of letters of credit securing leases for office facilities and certain equipment. 34 Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, research and development and marketing activities, principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt and other general corporate needs. Historically, these cash requirements have been met through cash provided by operating activities and cash and cash equivalents. Our current capital deployment strategy for fiscal 2024 is to invest excess cash on hand to support our continued growth initiatives into select markets and planned software development activities, and pay down our debt. As of March 31, 2023, we are not party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have had or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Significant cash requirements for the upcoming fiscal year include our operating lease obligations, interest payments related to our debt obligations, retirement of our 2024 Notes, and operating and capital purchase commitments. For information regarding our expected cash requirements and timing of payments related to leases and noncancellable purchase commitments, see Note 5, Leases, and Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, refer to Note 7, Convertible Senior Notes, Term Loan and Capped Calls, to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our debt obligations and applicable covenants. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances and our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, expenditure, and contractual obligation requirements for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Although we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future the success of our operations, the global economic outlook, and the pace of sustainable growth in our markets, in each case, in light of the market volatility and uncertainty as a result of the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine, among other factors, could impact our business and liquidity. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") was passed into law, which amended portions of relevant tax laws and provided relief to certain qualifying entities. In connection with the CARES Act, the Company elected to defer certain employer payroll taxes, which reduced cash usage by approximately $5.0 million through December 31, 2020, of which approximately $2.5 million was remitted to tax authorities during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023. Other jurisdictions around the world have also provided similar tax relief, which the Company has elected to receive, where applicable; these benefits were not material to our cash flows during fiscal 2022. Year over Year Changes Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 was $48.8 million, as compared to $34.7 million for fiscal 2022. Cash used in or provided by operating activities is primarily affected by: net income or loss; cash paid for interest expense associated with the outstanding Term Loan, 2024 Notes and 2028 Notes; non-cash expense items, such as depreciation, amortization, and impairments; non-cash expense associated with stock options and stock-based compensation and awards; and changes in working capital accounts, particularly related to the timing of collections from receivables and payments of obligations, such as commissions. In fiscal 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $48.8 million, reflecting an adjustment of $183.9 million in non-cash charges to our net loss, including stock-based compensation expense of $89.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $52.3 million, amortization of deferred sales commissions of $38.2 million, operating lease expenses of $12.0 million, and amortization of debt discount of $4.3 million, These adjustments for non-cash charges were partially offset by $62.0 million of working capital changes, including deferrals of sales commissions of $31.1 million and $24.4 million in accounts payable. In fiscal 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was a result of an adjustment of non-cash charges, such as stock-based compensation expense of $133.3 million, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs of $28.9 million, amortization of debt discount of $20.4 million, and operating lease expenses of $13.5 million. These adjustments for non-cash charges were partially offset by cash outflow from sales commissions of $9.5 million and other working capital changes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $6.1 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to $160.0 million net cash used in fiscal 2022. Cash provided in investing activities during fiscal 2023 primarily related to net purchases of $21.2 million of investments, capitalized internal-use software development costs of $11.9 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $3.0 million. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2022 was primarily related to the acquisition of Fuze for $125.4 million and net purchase of investments of $10.1 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $37.8 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to $105.4 million cash provided by financing activities used in fiscal 2022. The cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2023 was primarily driven by $217.3 million of net repayment of the 2024 Notes and $60.2 million of shares repurchased, which were substantially offset by $234.8 million of net proceeds from the Term Loan. Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2022 was primarily driven by $134.6 million of net proceeds from the issuance of 2024 Notes and $16.1 million from employee stock purchase plans and employee option exercises. These were partially offset by the $45.0 million in repurchase of the Company's common stock from certain qualified investors in connection with the Fuze acquisition. 35 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Refer to Note 1, The Company and Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, which describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We have identified the policies below as critical to our business and the understanding of our results of operations. These policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Although we believe our judgments and estimates are appropriate, actual future results may differ from our estimates. If different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from our reported results. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in connection with the revenue recognized in any accounting period. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Revenue is recognized when performance obligations are satisfied, based on the transaction price. We generally bill our customers on a monthly basis. Contracts typically range from annual to multi-year agreements, generally with payment terms of net 30 days. We record reductions to revenue for estimated sales returns and customer credits at the time the related revenue is recognized. Sales returns and customer credits are estimated based on our historical experience, current trends, and our expectations regarding future service delivery and platform performance. We monitor the accuracy of its sales reserve estimates by reviewing actual returns and credits and adjust them for its future expectations to determine the adequacy of its current and future reserve needs. If actual future returns and credits differ from past experience, additional reserves may be required. Service Revenue Recognition Service revenue from subscriptions to our cloud-based technology platform is recognized on a ratable basis over the contractual subscription term beginning on the date that the platform is delivered to the customer until the end of the contractual period. Payments received in advance of subscription services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue; revenue recognized for services rendered in advance of payments received are recorded as contract assets. Usage fees, when bundled, are billed in advance and recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contractual subscription term. Non-bundled usage fees are recognized as actual usage occurs. Other Revenue Recognition Other revenue is primarily comprised of product revenue and professional services revenue. We recognize product revenue for telephony equipment at a point in time when transfer of control has occurred, which is generally upon shipment. Sales returns are recorded as a reduction to revenue estimated based on historical experience. Professional services for deployment, configuration, system integration, optimization, customer training or education are primarily billed on a fixed-fee basis and are performed by us directly. Professional services revenue is recognized as services are performed or upon completion of the deployment. Allowance for Credit Losses We account for allowances for credit losses under the current expected credit loss (CECL) impairment model for our financial assets, including accounts receivable, and present the net amount of the financial instrument expected to be collected. The CECL impairment model requires an estimate of expected credit losses, measured over the contractual life of an instrument, which considers forecasts of future economic conditions in addition to information about past events and current conditions. Using this model, we estimate the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses at the end of each reporting period based on the aging of the receivable balance, current and historical customer trends, communications with customers, and macro-economic conditions. Amounts are written off after considerable collection efforts have been made and the amounts are determined to be uncollectible. Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for as business combinations, which treatment requires that the various assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized based on their fair value, accordingly, significant estimates and judgments are made to arrive at the fair values. The use of estimates involves uncertainty, therefore, the initial accounting for goodwill, intangible assets (and related amortization in future periods), property, plant and equipment, right of use assets (and related operating lease liabilities and amortization), prepaid and other current assets, accrued liabilities, deferred revenue, holdback consideration, and other liabilities are all subject to estimates. The actual results could be significantly different from the estimates. 36 Capitalized Internal-Use Software Costs Certain software development costs for computer software developed internally or obtained for internal use are capitalized during the application development stage. We begin to capitalize our costs to develop software when preliminary development efforts are successfully completed, management has authorized and committed project funding, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. Once the project has been completed, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset, generally estimated to be three years. Costs incurred prior to meeting these criteria, together with costs incurred for training and maintenance, are expensed as incurred and recorded in the applicable income statement category, typically research and development, in our consolidated statements of operations.