ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. As discussed in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly those set forth under the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the Form 10-K. OVERVIEW We are a leading SaaS provider of voice, video, contact center, and communication APIs powered by a global cloud communications platform. From our proprietary cloud technology platform, organizations across all their locations and employees have access to unified communications, team collaboration, video conferencing, contact center, data and analytics, communication APIs, and other services, enabling them to be more productive and responsive to their customers. Our customers range from small businesses to large enterprises and their users are spread across more than 170 countries. In recent years, we have increased our focus on the mid-market and enterprise customer sectors. We have a portfolio of cloud-based offerings that are subscription-based, made available at different rates, varying by the specific functionalities, services, and number of users. We generate service revenue from communications services subscriptions and platform usage. We generate other revenue from professional services and the sale of office phones and other hardware equipment. We define a customer as one or more legal entities to which we provide services pursuant to a single contractual arrangement. In some cases, we may have multiple billing relationships with a single customer (for example, where we establish separate billing accounts for a parent company and each of its subsidiaries). Our flagship service is our 8x8 XCaaS platform, which is a unified, cloud-based technology platform that includes a range of enterprise-grade Unified Communications-as-a-Service (UCaaS) and Contact Center-as-a-Service (CCaaS) solutions. Our customers purchase service plans with increasing functionality designated as X1, X2, etc., through X8, based on the specific communication needs and customer engagement profile of each user. Because XCaaS serves as a single integration framework for communications across an organization, customers can reduce costs associated with provisioning and management, increase customization based on use cases, and ensure compliance with security and data privacy requirements on a global scale. XCaaS also includes integrations with more than 50 third party applications, including Microsoft Teams. In January 2022, we acquired Fuze, Inc., a competitor in UCaaS for the enterprise, for approximately $213.8 million in stock and cash. The acquisition of Fuze, Inc. increased our installed base of enterprise customers and accelerated innovation on the XCaaS platform. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK In the second quarter of fiscal 2023, our total revenue grew $35.8 million or approximately 24% year-over-year to $187.4 million. Excluding $28.4 million of revenue from the Fuze customer base, total revenue increased 5% from the second quarter of 2022. In the first half of fiscal 2023, our total revenue grew $75.1 million or approximately 25% year-over-year to $375.0 million. Excluding $57.9 million of revenue from the Fuze customer base, total revenue increased 6% from the first half of 2022. As part of our long-term strategy to increase profitability and cash flow, we continue to focus on reducing the cost of delivering our services and improving our operating efficiency, while increasing our revenue and annualized recurring and usage revenue (ARR) from XCaaS and enterprise customers. We believe that continued innovation is necessary to meet the evolving needs of todays workforce and is a critical factor in attracting and retaining high value enterprise customers. We have focused our sales and marketing to drive awareness of the XCaaS product and unique features that 8x8 provides its customers. We are committed to increasing our investment in research and development in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022, because we believe innovation drives competitive advantage and is an important variable in achieving sustainable growth. Our acquisition of Fuze, Inc. increased our engineering resources dedicated to innovation on our XCaaS platform. Annualized Recurring Subscriptions and Usage Revenue (ARR) from strategic mid-market and enterprise customers represented 76% of total ARR and increased 37% compared to the same period in fiscal 2022. ARR associated with Small Business customers declined 2% year-over-year and accounted for 24% of total ARR, compared to 30% of ARR a year ago. We have focused our sales and marketing resources on increasing our enterprise ARR as a long-term strategy due to enterprise customers' longer commitments, higher retention and better efficiency ratios. Enterprise customers are also more likely to need the advanced capabilities of our contact center solutions and realize the advantages of our unified XCaaS platform. See "Key Business Metrics" section below for further discussion on how we define ARR. At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2023, enterprise customers accounted for 58% of total ARR and more than 35% of our ARR was derived from customers deploying the UCaaS and CCaaS capabilities of our XCaaS platform. 24 Table of Contents In August 2022, we took steps to improve our capital structure by refinancing approximately $403.8 million of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2024 Notes through an exchange for approximately $201.9 million in 2028 Notes plus approximately $181.7 million in cash. The cash payment was funded with the partial proceeds of a $250.0 million senior secured term loan facility due in 2027 entered into on August 10, 2022. At the same time as we issued the 2028 Notes, we repurchased 10,695,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $60.0 million in privately negotiated transactions with a limited number of holders. Subsequently, on September 28, 2022, we repurchased another $6.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes in a separate privately negotiated transaction, leaving approximately $90.0 million of the 2024 Notes outstanding at September 30, 2022. See Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Convertible Senior Notes, Term Loan and Capped Calls to our condensed consolidated financial statements for details. Approximately two-thirds of our investment in research and development is focused on extending the contact center capabilities of our XCaaS platform. We plan to continue our efforts to reduce our unit costs to improve our gross profit margin as our business scales. Additionally, we plan to reduce our investments in sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue as we focus on driving improved efficiencies in our customer acquisition and sales operations. As part of this focus, in October 2022, we reduced our total headcount, primarily in sales and marketing, by less than 10%. We expect our focus on reducing unit costs and improving sales and marketing efficiency will result in improved operating margins and increased cash flow from operations. IMPACT OF COVID-19 The full extent of the long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including those set forth under the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the Form 10-K. In an effort to contain COVID-19 or slow its spread, governments around the world have previously enacted various measures, including orders to close non-essential businesses, isolate residents to their homes, and practice social distancing. To protect the health and safety of our employees, our workforce continues to spend significant time working from home and travel has been curtailed for our employees as well as our customers. While we anticipate that the global health crisis caused by COVID-19 and the measures enacted to slow its spread will continue to negatively impact business activity across the globe, it is not clear what its full potential effects will be on our business, including the effects on our customers, suppliers or vendors, or on our financial results. KEY BUSINESS METRICS Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics to evaluate our operations, allocate resources, and drive financial performance in our business. Annualized Recurring Subscriptions and Usage Revenue Our management reviews Annualized Recurring Subscriptions and Usage Revenue (ARR) and believes it may be useful to investors to evaluate trends in future revenues of the Company. Our management believes ARR is an important indicator for measuring the overall performance of the business. Our management uses trends in ARR to assess our ongoing operations, allocate resources, and drive the financial performance of the business. We define ARR as equal to the sum of the most recent month of (i) recurring subscription amounts and (ii) platform usage charges for all CPaaS customers (subject to a minimum billings threshold for a period of at least six consecutive months), multiplied by 12. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating ARR and caution that our presentation may not be consistent with that of other companies. For example, to the extent our ARR is used to evaluate trends in future revenue, such an evaluation would assume a sustained level of usage from existing customers which may fluctuate in future periods. COMPONENTS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Service Revenue Service revenue consists of communication services subscriptions, platform usage revenue, and related fees from our UCaaS, CCaaS, and CPaaS offerings. We plan to continue to invest resources to increase service revenue through a combination of increased sales and marketing efforts, expansion of our global connectivity, innovation in product and technology, and through strategic acquisitions of technologies and businesses. Other Revenue Other revenue consists of revenues from professional services, primarily in support of deployment of our solutions and/or platform, and revenues from sales and rentals of IP telephones in conjunction with our cloud telephony service. Other revenue is dependent on the number and size of customers who choose to purchase or rent an IP telephone in conjunction with our UCaaS service and choose to engage our professional services organization for implementation and deployment of our cloud UCaaS and CCaaS solutions. 25 Table of Contents Cost of Service Revenue Cost of service revenue consists primarily of costs associated with network operations and related personnel, technology licenses, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, other communication origination and termination services provided by third-party carriers and outsourced customer service call center operations, and other costs such as customer service, and technical support costs. We allocate overhead costs, such as IT and facilities, to cost of service revenue, as well as to each of the operating expense categories, generally based on relative headcount. Our IT costs include costs for IT infrastructure and personnel. Facilities costs primarily consist of office leases and related expenses. Cost of Other Revenue Cost of other revenue consists primarily of direct and indirect costs associated with the purchasing of IP telephones as well as the scheduling, shipping and handling, personnel costs, expenditures incurred in connection with the professional services associated with the deployment and implementation of our products, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, third-party development, software and equipment costs necessary for us to conduct our product, platform development and engineering efforts, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, sales commissions, including those to the channel, trade shows, advertising and other marketing, demand generation, promotional expenses, and allocated IT and facilities costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related costs, professional services fees, corporate administrative costs, tax and regulatory fees, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, consists primarily of interest expense related to the term loan and convertible notes, partially offset by income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, investments, and gains / losses from foreign exchange, debt extinguishment and warrants measurement. Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of foreign income taxes and state minimum taxes in the United States. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, any changes in the United States and foreign taxation of such activities may increase our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance for our United States deferred tax assets, including federal and state net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the United States. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. Our results of operations for the second quarter and first half for fiscal 2023, and the discussion below, includes Fuze, Inc.'s results of operations, while the results of operations for our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2022 did not include Fuze, Inc.s results of operations, since it was acquired on January 18, 2022. Our results of operations are also impacted by fluctuations in foreign currencies, please refer to Part 1,