Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015; and (4) our unaudited quarterly financial information for the first three quarters of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and for each quarter for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 in Part II, Item 7. See Note 2 - Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this 2017 Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of the restatement. 2 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our industry. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan expect, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of litigation; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies; and our ability to effectively integrate operations of entities we have acquired or may acquire. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future event, or for any other reason. However, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As used herein, A10 Networks, the Company, we, our, us , and similar terms include A10 Networks, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 3 PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a l eading provider of secure application solutions and services that enable a new generation of intelligently connected companies with the ability to continuously improve cyber protection and digital responsiveness across dynamic Information Technology (IT) and network infrastructures. Our portfolio of software and hardware solutions combines industry-leading performance and scale with advanced intelligent automation, machine learning, data driven analytics, and threat intelligence to ensure security and availability of customer applications across their multi-cloud networks, including on-premise, private and public clouds. As the cyber threat landscape intensifies and network architectures evolve, we are committed to providing customers with greater connected intelligence to improve the security, visibility, availability, flexibility, management and performance of their applications. Our customers include leading cloud providers, web-scale businesses, service providers, government organizations, and enterprises. Industry Trends & Market Drivers The digitization of business has made applications a critical ingredient in virtually every aspect of operations. How safely and efficiently applications perform determines how businesses perform, how they compete, grow, and stand out in the marketplace. The application networking industry is experiencing dynamic shifts in the way applications are developed, delivered, monetized and protected. Our corporate strategy and technology address these evolving needs of our customers and industry, including: Increased Adoption of Cloud Applications . For decades, businesses operated with applications based in physical, appliance-based data centers. While these traditional applications remain central to businesses around the world, a new genre of cloud-based applications is emerging, presenting new opportunities and challenges that require organizations to reassess the visibility, performance and security of their applications. Some of these challenges relate to how a business effectively manages secure application services across various data centers and cloud types - whether private, public or hybrid clouds. Over time, more and more applications may be born in the cloud, while some applications that existed in traditional data centers may migrate to clouds as well. To address this shift, businesses will need solutions that bridge both traditional and cloud-based application environments and centrally manage all secure application services holistically in this multi-cloud world. Increased Network Complexity and New Infrastructure Paradigms Traditional IT vendors may need to shift from hardware-centric models to software-defined approaches to improve agility for critical applications, and subsequently, their business operations. Ensuring product portfolios adapt and diversify to include traditional hardware as well as newer software and cloud-based offerings are key factors determining future market leadership and competitive landscapes. Growing Importance of Automation and Orchestration. As applications increasingly move to a multi-cloud environment, the deployment of orchestration and automation tools has become essential to efficiently automating the deployment and operations of security and application services. There is a need for increased operational efficiency and agility, improved detection and reporting of security anomalies, enhanced end-user experiences and reduced total cost of ownership (TCO), simplified management of distributed application services, improved capacity planning and optimized multi-cloud software lifecycle management. By deploying newly developed secure application delivery automation and analytics tools, enterprises are able to visualize their application performance and to detect anomalous trends. The Rise of DDoS Attacks. The cyberthreat landscape continues to intensify and grow. Malicious actors and cybercriminals such as hacktivists, amateur hackers, and foreign military and intelligence organizations target data centers of every type. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks are increasing in size, frequency, complexity and notoriety. IT defenders are faced with the increasing sophistication of adversaries who are responsible for the size and frequency of these attacks. According to the A10 Networks Application Intelligence Report (AIR), 44% percent of the IT professionals surveyed in January 2018 expect DDoS attacks to increase over the next year, and 70 percent expect overall cyberattacks to increase or remain the same. A DDoS attack seeks to render a target network or website unavailable by orchestrating coordinated attacks from massive worldwide networks of compromised endpoints, called botnets. Compromised endpoints can be computing 4 devices or Internet of Things driven devices like video cameras. Any internet-connected device can be vulnerable to hackers and utilized as part of a botnet. Rapid growth of SSL, encrypted applications, and hidden threats . Many applications use the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol. Cyber criminals exploit the protocol to hide malicious malware within encrypted channels and carry out attacks against businesses and users. This malicious trend drives demand for greater visibility within SSL-encrypted channels. Businesses need a way to decrypt traffic and apply outbound security policies efficiently, and require an effective way to inspect, identify, and remediate malicious traffic, then re-encrypt traffic and deliver it quickly to its destination. Conducting this process efficiently without placing a security performance tax on the user experience is a critical requirement. Rapid Growth of Internet-Connected Devices and the Exhaustion of the Existing IP Address Space . The rapid growth of mobile and other internet-connected devices threatens to overwhelm the current Internet Protocol (IP) addressing scheme, IPv4. This Internet of Things trend, combined with mobility and widespread access to the internet globally, all feed each other. Supporting the rapid growth of internet-connected devices requires application networking technology to play a significant role in managing two internet connection standards simultaneously, extending the viability of IPv4 while enabling customers to move to IPv6. As new trends like 5G emerge in coming years, the need for IPv4 preservation and IPv6 transition may increase in importance. Need for Advanced Secure Application Service Solutions. To address these challenges, advanced and integrated solutions for managing secure application services across businesses application environments are needed. Of the many solution requirements, some of the more critical include: Ability to Centrally Manage Traditional and Cloud Environments. As more applications are born in the cloud, and they operate alongside traditional applications supported by on-premise and appliance-based data centers, application delivery and security solutions will be called upon to span traditional and cloud-based environments. In doing so, solutions must centrally control and manage secure application services across any combination of traditional data centers and clouds. To support data centers and different cloud types, solutions require a variety of form factors; hardware, software (i.e. virtual, bare metal) and cloud-based offerings. Clear Visibility and Sophisticated Analytics. The effectiveness of application performance and security depends greatly on the level of visibility a business has into its application traffic. That visibility must be able to span any number of data centers and cloud types to ensure a holistic view of security threats and performance issues affecting applications. The deeper and clearer the visibility, the better the analytics and actionable information that can be applied to enhancing application performance and protection. Secure application service solutions must be driven by solid visibility and per-app analytics. Ability to Scale. Performance and security at scale are paramount in todays dynamic application environments. Solutions need to analyze application traffic quickly and enhance performance and security in traditional and cloud-based application environments in a centrally managed manner. Sophisticated Security Functionality. Secure application service solutions must detect and mitigate sophisticated cybersecurity threats, such as malicious threats hiding in encrypted traffic and DDoS attacks. To defend against the rising volume of sophisticated cyber-attacks, solutions require exceptional performance and scale without dramatically increasing footprint and total cost of ownership. Product Portfolio Our product portfolio seeks to address many of the aforementioned challenges and solution requirements. The portfolio consists of six secure application solutions and two intelligent management and automation tools. While our revenue to date has been predominantly hardware-based, software and cloud-based solutions are becoming an increasingly important part of the solutions portfolio. Our solutions are available in a variety of form factors, such as optimized hardware appliances, bare metal software, virtual appliances and cloud-native software. Our comprehensive and flexible application solutions portfolio, combined with our Harmony Controller positions the Company to address the growing need for shifting workloads to a mix of private clouds and public clouds. A10 Harmony Controller is built on microservices and container technologies and offers a multi-tenant, highly scalable controller architecture that incorporates real-time analytics at a per-app level and central management and orchestration of secure application services across hybrid environments - from physical data centers to public, private and hybrid clouds. 5 The following is a further overview of our portfolio: Secure application solutions: 1) Thunder Application Delivery Controllers (ADC) 2) Lightning Application Delivery Controller (Lightning ADC) 3) Thunder Carrier Grade Network Address Translation (CGN) 4) Thunder Threat Protection System (TPS) 5) Thunder SSL Insight (SSLi) 6) Thunder Convergent Firewall (CFW) Intelligent management and automation tools: 1) Harmony Controller 2) aGalaxy The following is an overview of our portfolio: Secure Application Solutions 1) Thunder Application Delivery Controller. Thunder ADC provides advanced server load balancing, including global server load balancing, high availability, aFleX scripting, aVCS, ADP virtualization delivery for multi-tenancy, SSL, acceleration, SSL intercept, caching and compression, web application firewall (WAF), domain name server (DNS), application firewall (DAF) and others. ADCs are typically deployed in front of a server farm within a data center, including web, application and database servers. 2) Lightning Application Delivery Controller. Lightning ADC services ADC functionality in the cloud, increasing the agility and reducing costs for customers. Introduced after the acquisition of Appcito, Inc. (Appcito) in 2016, Lightning ADC is a cloud-native software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform designed to boost the delivery and security of applications and microservices across public, private and hybrid clouds, enabling ADC-as-a-service. Central to the Lightning ADC is the SaaS-based A10 Harmony Controller, which provides central management, policy configuration, and a big data repository and analytics engine. 3) Thunder Carrier Grade Network Address Translation . Thunder CGN extends the life of increasingly scarce IPv4 address blocks and their associated infrastructure using Carrier-Grade network address translation (NAT), and also provides migration solutions to the IPv6 addressing standard. Our CGN solution is typically deployed in service provider networks to provide standards-compliant address and protocol translation services between varying types of IP addresses, and has been successfully implemented by many large service providers around the world. 4) Thunder Threat Protection System . Thunder TPS solution provides high-volume, large-scale protection for customers networks and server resources against massive DDoS attacks. TPS is typically deployed at the perimeter of the networks to protect internal network resources from large-scale, volumetric and multi-vector attacks. In October 2017, we significantly expanded the TPS solution with the launch of a dedicated detector function, improved workflow and automation in aGalaxy TPS, as well as enhancements for TPS mitigation. TPS is augmented by the A10 Threat Intelligence Service which can block known bad connections (i.e., IP addresses) from entering protected networks. This service is based on software licensed from ThreatSTOP, Inc. 5) Thunder SSL Insight. Thunder SSLi eliminates the inherent blind spots created by SSL encryption by offloading CPU-intensive SSL decryption functions that enable security devices to inspect and remove malware within encrypted traffic. Thunder SSLi decrypts SSL-encrypted traffic and forwards it to a third-party security device, such as a firewall, for deep packet inspection (DPI). Once the traffic has been analyzed and scrubbed, Thunder SSLi re-encrypts the traffic and forwards it to its intended destination. 6) Thunder Convergent Firewall. Thunder CFW addresses multiple critical security capabilities in one package by consolidating multiple security and networking functions in a single appliance, helping customers significantly lower capital and operating expenses. Its performance and scale delivers superior value to customers, all within a small form factor, and streamlines customer operations with a cloud-ready programmable platform. Thunder CFW includes: 6 A high-performance Secure Web Gateway with integrated explicit proxy, URL filtering and SSL visibility, enabling security policy enforcement for outbound HTTP/HTTPS client traffic. A high-performance data center firewall with integrated network denial-of-service protection and server load balancing, and provides a Layer 4 stateful firewall and Layer 7 application-level gateway functionality for protecting data center applications from emerging network and DDoS threats. A high-performance Gi/SGi firewall with integrated network DDoS and CGNAT. The Gi/SGi firewall protects the mobile operator infrastructures from Internet-based DDoS and other security threats. A high-performance IPsec site-to-site VPN that helps businesses secure application traffic between data centers and enables customers to securely transport application traffic over public networks. Intelligent Management and Automation Tools 1) Harmony Controller. Harmony Controller provides intelligent management, automation and analytics for secure application delivery in multi-cloud environments. Our Harmony Controller simplifies operations. Infrastructure and application operations teams can centrally manage configuration and application policies for our Thunder and Lightning application services, such as load balancing, application delivery and web application firewall. Configuration and control can also be automated via application program interface (API) and integrated with orchestration systems used within organizations. In addition, the controller provides comprehensive infrastructure and per-application metrics and analytics for performance and security monitoring, anomaly detection and faster troubleshooting. The container-based, microservices architecture allows controller capacity to be scaled without interrupting operations. Our Harmony Controller is available in two deployment models: A10 managed software as a service (SaaS), or as a self-managed, on premise deployment. 2) aGalaxy. a Galaxy multi-device network management solution enables a network administrator to manage multiple Thunder devices for both base configurations and advanced TPS or ADC configurations. aGalaxy is designed to provide lower operational costs, as staff are freed up from repetitive tasks, while also increasing precision and accuracy with centralized and automated tasks, reducing the potential for human error. aGalaxy is available as a hardware appliance or a software-only virtual machine. In October 2017, we significantly enhanced the aGalaxy TPS offering with improved workflow and automation capabilities, and integration with TPS Detector. Product Form Factors Our products are offered in a variety of form factors and payment models, including physical appliances and software licenses, as well as pay-as-you-go licensing models and FlexPool, a flexible consumption-based software model. FlexPool, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2017, allows businesses to flexibly allocate and re-distribute capacity across applications, multiple clouds and data centers. Thunder Series . ADC, CGN, TPS, SSLi, and CFW products are available on the Thunder Series family of physical appliances. The Thunder Series products support throughput ranges from 2 Gbps to 300 Gbps. The appliance family provides a variety of other security and performance options. vThunder virtual appliances operate on all major hypervisor platforms, including VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V and Linux KVM. vThunder is also available from cloud providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and service providers. Thunder for Bare Metal is a software version of our ADC and CGN solutions that is designed to run on a variety of Intel x86 servers, allowing the customer to design and select their own hardware platform. Lightning is a cloud-native SaaS ADC product designed to boost the delivery and security of applications and microservices across public, private and hybrid clouds. Our Lightning ADC and the A10 Harmony Controllers multi-cloud management capabilities allow flexible application deployment across multiple clouds with the ability to maintain and manage diverse workloads. Our Lightning ADC will run natively on public cloud environments, such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platforms. 7 AX Series : Our ADC and CGN solutions are available on select older models from the AX Series line. Underlying Technology Since our inception, our solutions have been known for their high performance and scalability in some of the largest and most demanding networks. The value and significance of our high-performance offerings reside in our portfolios underlying software operating system. With the exception of Lightning ADC, our products are built on the Advanced Core Operating System (ACOS) platform and leverage its performance optimization and security features. The ACOS platform is optimized for modern 64-bit central processing units (CPUs), which increasingly have multiple parallel processing cores that operate within a single CPU for higher efficiency and performance scalability. To maximize the capabilities of these increasingly dense multi-core CPUs, ACOS implements a proprietary shared memory architecture that provides all cores with simultaneous access to common memory. This shared memory software architecture enables our products to utilize these multi-core CPUs efficiently and scale performance with increasing CPU cores. As a result, ACOS provides customers with products that can deliver superior price performance benefits over products that lack these capabilities. ACOS high-performance design enables our products to address a wide range of performance-driven networking challenges. The flexible software design of ACOS allows us to apply our portfolio to a variety of markets for a variety of needs. Some notable details about ACOS include: High Performance and Intelligent Network I/O Processing. In order to maximize the efficiency of high density, multi-core processors, we have developed a high performance intelligent network I/O technology that can balance application traffic flows equitably across processor cores. Our Flexible Traffic Accelerator logic can be implemented either as software running within a standard x86 processor or a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) semiconductor. Our Flexible Traffic Accelerator (FTA) also performs certain hardware-based security checks for each packet and can discard suspicious traffic before it can impact system performance. Scalable and Efficient Memory Usage. To improve the performance of the multi-core processor architecture, we have developed a shared memory technology to allow all processors to share common memory and the state of the system simultaneously. This avoids the overhead associated with Inter-Processor Communication architectures deployed in first-generation approaches. We optimize memory to be visible to all cores simultaneously, while minimizing communication overhead and contention among processors for allocated memory space. All processors share a common memory pool, which dynamically allocates memory space based on application processing requirements without constraints. Customers can achieve greater performance and scalability from memory and processor resources because configurations, policies and network databases are efficiently stored within a shared memory architecture. Optimized Application Networking and Security. Once data is processed and placed into a shared memory, a processor can begin to apply ACOS common services and function-specific logic. To ensure that every processor is utilized to perform every function and thereby achieve greater system utilization, ACOS uses all processor cores symmetrically for all functions and services. The ACOS common services perform a set of key operational functions, including configuration management, network I/O, aFleX scripting, Virtual Chassis System(aVCS), aXAPI for management integration, Application Delivery Partitions (ADPs), virtualization to enable multi-tenancy, and common resource management such as buffer, system memory, timer management and other internal system management tasks. ACOS features a modular software design, which improves reliability by ensuring that modifications made to one module will not have unwanted side effects on other system functions. Other noteworthy ACOS Technologies . ACOS incorporates a number of other technologies to provide a rich environment for developing Layer 4-7 application networking solutions, including: aFleX Scripting. aFleX scripting technology is based on industry-standard tool command language and enables customers to write custom scripts to augment the application processing. ADP. ADP enables multi-tenancy in the ACOS common services so that multiple departments of an organization or multiple customers can share a physical/virtual appliance. aVCS. aVCS enables multiple physical/virtual appliances to be managed as a single chassis. 8 aXAPI . aXAPI is an industry standard representational state transfer (RESTful) program interface to enable management integration for automated management. Support & Services One of our founding principles is to provide excellent customer support. Our global support team is part of our engineering organization and is trained across all products and solutions, and takes complete ownership of customer issues from the beginning to the end to achieve rapid response and resolution. Our consistent, high-quality customer service and technical support is a key factor in attracting and retaining customers of all sizes, as well as support services that include installation, phone support, repair and replacement, software updates, online tools, consulting and training services. All customers receive standard warranty support for 90 days with the purchase of our products. We offer four maintenance options - Basic, Basic Plus, Gold and Platinum support programs (Platinum available in select countries). Maintenance contracts may be purchased in 12 -month increments up to five years. The average maintenance contract term is approximately 18 months. We invoice channel partners or customers directly for maintenance contracts at the time of hardware purchase, and all maintenance contracts are non-cancellable and are generally renewed through the same channel as originally purchased. Software updates are provided to all customers with a current maintenance contract on a when-and-if-available basis. We maintain technical support centers in the United States, Japan, China, India and the Netherlands. Thunder TPS features an enhanced support offering that includes access to the A10 DDoS Security Incident Response Team (SIRT). Augmenting the standard support, the offering includes access to a dedicated team of DDoS mitigation experts specializing in DDoS prevention, offering immediate assistance for mitigating attacks, and a subscription to the A10 Threat Intelligence Service, leveraging collective intelligence to block known threats. Our professional services team provides a full range of fee-based consulting services, including pre-sale network assessment, comprehensive network analysis and capacity planning, post-sale migration and implementation services, on-site installation and ongoing support. Customers Our customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, government, retail, financial, gaming, and education. As of December 31, 2017 , we had sold our products to more than 6,200 customers across 83 countries. Our customers include the top four United States wireless carriers, seven of the top 10 United States cable providers, and the top three service providers in Japan, in addition to other global enterprises, Web giants, gaming companies and governmental organizations. Our business is geographically diversified with 49% of our total revenue from the United States, 22% from Japan and 29% from other geographic regions for the year ended December 31, 2017 . During the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for approximately 35% , 36% and 32% of our total revenue, respectively. In 2016 , one distribution channel partner accounted for 14% of our total revenue. In 2017 and 2015 , no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Competition As cloud and security trends continue to gain prominence, changes in application delivery needs, cyber security threats, and the technology landscape result in evolving customer requirements to address application performance and security. These evolving demands have expanded our addressable market into DDoS protection, CGN and multiple areas of network security, where we compete with a number of companies not included among traditional ADC vendors. The agility and flexibility of the ACOS platform enables us to rapidly innovate and deploy solutions into adjacent markets to ADC. We have also enhanced our portfolio with the Harmony Controller, an intelligent management, automation, and analytics platform for secure application delivery in multi-cloud environments. This container and microservices-based product complements our comprehensive set of hardware, software and cloud offerings. We do not consider any of these markets to include a single dominant company, nor do we consider the markets to be fragmented. Our main competitors fall into the following categories: 9 Companies that sell products in the traditional ADC market, such as F5 Networks, Inc. (F5 Networks) and Citrix Systems, Inc. (Citrix Systems); Companies that sell open source, software-only, cloud-based ADC services, such as Avi Networks Inc. (Avi Networks), NGINX Inc. (NGiNX), and HAProxy Technologies, Inc. (HAProxy) as well as many startups; Companies that sell CGN products, which were originally designed for other networking purposes, such as edge routers and security appliances from vendors like Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco Systems) and Juniper Networks, Inc. (Juniper Networks); Companies that sell traditional DDoS protection products, such as Arbor Networks, Inc., a subsidiary of NetScout Systems, (Arbor Networks) and Radware, Ltd. (Radware); Companies that sell SSL decryption and inspection products, such as Symantec Corporation (through its acquisition of Blue Coat Systems Inc. in 2016) and F5 Networks; and Companies that sell certain network security products, including Secure Web Gateways, SSL Insight/SSL Intercept, data center firewalls and Gi/SGi firewalls. The key competitive factors in our markets include: Ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; Ability to address on-premise and cloud application environments in a secure, centrally managed manner; Ability to accommodate any IT delivery model or combination of models, regardless of form factor; Breadth and depth of product features and functionality; Level of customer satisfaction; Price, performance, and efficiency; Ability for products to scale with high-speed network traffic; Flexible and agile design of products; Ability to detect and mitigate large-scale cyber security threats; Brand awareness and reputation; Strength of sales and marketing; and Ability to attract and retain talented employees. Sales and Marketing Sales Our high-touch salesforce engages customers directly and through distribution channels. Our sales team is comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel who are organized by geography and maintain sales presence in 28 countries, including in the following countries and regions: United States, Western Europe, the Middle East, Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea, Southeast Asia and Latin America. Our sales organization includes sales engineers with deep technical domain expertise who are responsible for pre-sales technical support, solutions engineering, proof-of-concept work and technical training for our distribution channel partners. Our sales team is also comprised of a channel sales organization that is expanding our market reach through partners. We may continue to grow our sales headcount, including in geographies where we currently do not have a sales presence. 10 Some customer sales are originated and completed by our OEM and distribution channel partners with little or no direct engagement with our sales personnel. We fulfill nearly all orders globally through our distribution channel partners, which include distributors, value added resellers and system integrators. Revenue fulfilled through our distribution channel partners accounted for 86% , 85% and 81% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Marketing Our strategy is focused on driving greater demand for our products and services, and enabling sales to win as that demand broadens. Our marketing drives global demand generation campaigns, as well as additional awareness and demand via joint marketing campaigns with channel partners and strategic alliance partners worldwide. Our marketing also drives global awareness through industry analyst engagement, financial analyst engagement, media outreach, blogs, social media and events. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. This approach allows us to benefit from the scale and experience of our manufacturing partners to reduce our costs, overhead and inventory while allowing us to adjust more quickly to changing customer demand. Our manufacturers are Lanner Electronics Inc. (Lanner), AEWIN Technologies Co., Ltd. (AEWIN) and iBase. These companies manufacture and assemble our hardware products using design specifications, quality assurance programs and standards established by us. Our manufacturers procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts and purchase orders. These forecasts represent our estimates of future demand for our products based on historical trends and analysis from our sales and product management functions as adjusted for overall market conditions. The component parts incorporated into our products are sourced either by our manufacturing partners or directly by us. We have agreements with Lanner with an initial term of one year and AEWIN with an initial term of six years pursuant to which they manufacture, assemble, and test our products. Each agreement automatically renews for successive one-year terms unless either party gives notice that they do not want to renew. We do not have any long-term manufacturing contracts that guarantee fixed capacity or pricing. Quality assurance and testing is performed at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers locations. We warehouse and deliver our products out of our San Jose warehouse for the Americas and outsource warehousing and delivery to a third-party logistics provider in some regions. Research and Development Our research and development effort is focused on developing new products and enhancing our existing products. Our engineering team works closely with customers and technology partners to identify future needs. A majority of our research and development team is focused on software development, with substantial experience in networking, network management, application delivery, performance optimization, security, software quality engineering and automation. We believe that innovation and timely development of new features and products is essential to meeting the needs of our end-customers and improving our competitive position. We supplement our own research and development effort with open source technologies and technologies that we license from third parties. We test our products thoroughly to certify and ensure interoperability with third-party hardware and software products. Our engineering teams are located mainly in our headquarters in San Jose, California, Beijing, China, Bangalore, India and Taipei, Taiwan. For the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , our research and development expenses were $63.0 million , $60.7 million and $54.8 million , representing 27% , 27% and 28% of our total revenue, respectively. Backlog As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , we had product backlog of approximately $9.3 million and $19.5 million . Backlog represents orders confirmed with a purchase order for products to be shipped generally within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Orders are subject to cancellation, rescheduling by customers and product specification changes by customers. Although we believe that the backlog orders are firm, purchase orders may be canceled by the customer prior to shipment without significant penalty. For this reason, we believe that our product backlog at any given date is not a reliable indicator of future revenues. 11 For the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , our total revenue was $235.4 million , $227.3 million and $196.3 million , respectively, representing growth of 20% from 2015 to 2017 . Our total revenue grew 16% in 2016 as compared to 2015 and grew 4% in 2017 as compared to 2016 . For the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , our gross margin was 77.4% , 76.1% and 75.3% , respectively. We had net losses of $10.8 million , $22.4 million and $41.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 107 United States (U.S.) patents issued and 63 U.S. patent applications pending, and 53 overseas patents issued and 32 overseas patent applications pending. Our issued U.S. patents, excluding 22 patents that we acquired, expire between 2025 and 2036 . Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use trade secrets or other information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Any issued patent may not preserve our proprietary position, and competitors or others may develop technologies similar to or superior to our technology. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We license software from third parties for development of or integration into our products, including proprietary and open source software. We pursue registration of our trademarks and domain names in the United States and other jurisdictions. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the risks associated with protecting our intellectual property. Employees As of December 31, 2017 , we had 835 full-time employees, including 411 engaged in research and development and customer support, 349 in sales and marketing and 75 in general and administrative and other activities. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is a party to any collective bargaining arrangement in connection with his or her employment with us. We have never experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Corporate Information A10 Networks, Inc. was incorporated in the State of California in 2004 and subsequently reincorporated in the State of Delaware in March 2014. Our website is located at www.A10networks.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investors.A10networks.com. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to such reports and all other filings pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Act. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Additionally, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be accessed at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at www.sec.gov. For information about the SECs Public Reference Room, contact 1-800-SEC-0330. We announce material information to the public about A10, our products and services and other matters through a variety of means, including our website ( www.A10networks.com ), the investor relations section of our website ( www.investors.A10networks.com ), press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, public conference calls, and social media, including our corporate Twitter account ( @A10Networks) and our corporate Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/a10networks). The contents of our website and social media contents are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. We encourage investors and others to review the information we make public in these locations, as such information could be deemed to be material information. Please note that this list may be updated from time to time. 12 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. We have identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure