ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the discussion below contains certain forwardlooking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those matters discussed under the heading Forward-looking Statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forwardlooking statements due to various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in this document. Overview We are a leading provider of application networking and network security technologies. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. Our products are built on our Advanced Core Operating System ("ACOS") platform of advanced network technologies, which is designed to enable our products to deliver substantially greater performance and security relative to prior generation application networking products. Our software based ACOS architecture also provides the flexibility that enables us to expand our business to offer additional products to solve a growing array of networking and security challenges arising from increased Internet cloud and mobile computing. We currently offer four software based advanced application networking and network security solutions to address end-customer needs, including ADC to optimize web and back-office application performance, CGN to provide network address and protocol translation services for service provider networks, TPS for network-wide multi-vector DDoS security protection, and CFW (which we expect to start shipping in the first quarter of 2016) for protecting data centers and mobile infrastructure, improving web security, and encrypting site to-site communications. Our solutions are cloud-ready and available in a variety of form factors as optimized hardware appliances, in the cloud as software, and as virtual appliances. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Products revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our end-customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenue from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial and education. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of December 31, 2015, we had sold products to more than 4,700 customers across 77 countries. We sell a substantial portion of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution center facilities, as well as at our manufacturers locations. During the year ended December 31, 2015, 54% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 18% from Japan, and 28% from other geographical regions. During 2014, 48% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 26% from Japan and 26% from other geographical regions. During 2013, 48% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 28% from Japan and 24% from other geographical regions. For the years ended December 2015, 2014 and 2013, our enterprise customers accounted for 55% , 54% and 53% of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our service provider customers accounted for 45%, 46% and 47% of our total revenue. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large end-customers, including service providers, in any period. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for approximately 33%, 37% and 43% of our total revenue. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products is difficult to 42 predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases by or deliveries to our largest end-customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period and cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and also be difficult to predict. We had $98.1 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015. Cash generated by operating activities was $3.4 million in 2015 compared to $30.5 million of cash used in operating activities in 2014. We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect our short-term profitability. Results of Operations The following tables provide a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 as derived from our consolidated financial statements included in