ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the discussion below contains certain forwardlooking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those matters discussed under the heading Forward-looking Statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forwardlooking statements due to various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in this document. Overview We are a leading provider of application networking technologies. Our solutions enable service providers, enterprises, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and networks. Our products are built on our Advanced Core Operating System (" ACOS") platform of advanced network technologies, which is designed to enable our products to deliver substantially greater performance and security relative to prior generation application networking products. Our software based ACOS architecture also provides the flexibility that enables us to expand our business to offer additional products to solve a growing array of networking and security challenges arising from increased Internet cloud and mobile computing. We currently offer three software based advanced application networking solutions. These are Application Delivery Controllers ("ADCs") to optimize data center performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide address and protocol translation services for service provider networks, and a Distributed Denial of Service Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide security protection. We deliver these solutions both on optimized hardware appliances and as virtual appliances across our Thunder Series and AX Series product families. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Product revenues are generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our end-customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial and education. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of December 31, 2014, we had sold products to approximately 3,900 customers across 71 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, California facilities, as well as at our manufacturers locations. We warehouse and deliver the majority of our products out of our San Jose warehouse. We also outsource warehousing and delivery to third-party logistics providers in some regions. During 2014, 48% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 26% from Japan, and 26% from other geographical regions. During the year ended December 31, 2013, 48% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 28% from Japan and 24% from other geographical regions. For the years ended December 2014, 2013 and 2012, our enterprise customers accounted for 54%, 53% and 47% of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our service provider customers accounted 53%, 47% and 46% of our total revenue. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large end-customers, including service providers, in any period. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for approximately 37%, 43% and 49% of our total revenue. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products is difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases by or deliveries to our largest end-customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period and cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and also be difficult to predict. 40 We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect short-term profitability. Results of Operations The following tables provide a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 as derived from our consolidated financial statements included in