Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. In addition, any statements or information that refer to expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, performance or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our expectations regarding our further development of, successful application of, and the rate and degree of market acceptance of, our Integrated Drug Creation Platform, including progress towards fully in silico biologic drug discovery; our expectations regarding the markets for our services and technologies, including the growth rate of the biologics and next-generation biologics markets; our ability to attract new partners and enter into technology development agreements that contain milestone and royalty obligations in favor of us; our potential to receive revenue from the achievement of milestones and from royalties on net sales under agreements with our partners with respect to products originating from our Integrated Drug Creation Platform; our ability to enter into license agreements for our existing Active Programs with those partners who do not have current milestone payment and royalty obligations to us; our ability to manage and grow our business by expanding our relationships with existing partners or introducing our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to new partners; our expectations regarding our current and future partners continued development of, and ability to commercialize, biologic drugs generated utilizing our platform; our estimates of our expenses, ongoing losses, future revenue, capital requirements and our need for or ability to obtain additional funding before we can expect to generate any revenue; our estimates of the sufficiency of our cash resources; our ability to establish, maintain or expand collaborations, partnerships or strategic relationships; our ability to provide our partners with a full biologic drug discovery and cell line development solution from target to Investigational New Drug application (IND)-ready, including non-standard amino acid incorporation capabilities; our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection for our platform, products and technologies, the duration of such protection and our ability to operate our business without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others; our ability to attract, hire and retain key personnel and to manage our growth effectively; our expectations regarding use of our cash and cash equivalents, including the proceeds from our initial public offering; our financial performance and that of companies in our industry and the financial markets generally; the volatility of the trading price of our common stock; Table of Contents our competitive position and the development of and projections relating to our competitors or our industry; the potential impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including supply chain issues arising from the pandemic and the emergence of new variants of the virus, such as the Omicron and Delta variants, on our business or operations; the impact of laws and regulations; our expectations regarding the time during which we will be an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (JOBS Act); and our expectations about market trends. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions, and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, collaborations, joint ventures, or investments we may make or enter into. You should read this Annual Report and the documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are made as of the date of this Annual Report, and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete. Our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Except as otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to Absci, the Company, we, us and our refer to Absci Corporation and its subsidiaries. Market and Industry Data and Forecasts We obtained the industry, market and competitive position data used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K from our own internal estimates and research, as well as from industry and general publications and surveys, governmental agencies and publicly available information. Internal estimates are derived from publicly available information released by industry analysts and third-party sources, our internal research and our industry experience, and are based on assumptions made by us based on such data and our knowledge of our industry and market, which we believe to be reasonable. In some cases, we do not expressly refer to the sources from which these data are derived. In that regard, when we refer to one or more sources of this type of data in any paragraph, you should assume that other data of this type appearing in the same paragraph is derived from the same sources, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. In addition, while we believe the industry, market and competitive position data included in this prospectus is reliable and based on reasonable assumptions, such data involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other factors could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates made by third parties or by us. Trademarks This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains references to our trademarks and service marks and to those belonging to third parties. Absci, SoluPro and SoluPure are our registered trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also use various other trademarks, service marks and trade names in our business, including the Absci logo, ACE Assay, HiPrBind, Bionic Proteins, Translating Ideas into Drugs, Bionic Table of Contents SoluPro, Integrated Drug Creation, Denovium, and Denovium Engine. All other trademarks, service marks or trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may be referred to with or without the and symbols, but references which omit the and symbols should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. Availability of Other Information about Absci Investors and others should note that we routinely communicate with investors and the public using our website (www.absci.com) and our investor relations website (investors.absci.com) free of charge, including without limitation, through the posting of investor presentations, SEC filings (including amendments and exhibits to such filings as soon as reasonably practicable after filed with or furnished to the SEC), press releases, public conference calls and webcasts on these websites. The information that we post on these websites could be deemed to be material information. As a result, investors, the media, and others interested in Absci are encouraged to review this information on a regular basis. The contents of our website, or any other website that may be accessed from our website, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Table of Contents Part I. 3 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Our Mission Our mission is to change the world, one protein at a time. We founded Absci with the goal of creating better medicines and helping them reach patients sooner. We recognized the extraordinary medical and economic potential of protein-based drugs (biologics), but also the significant challenges the biopharmaceutical industry faces to both discover novel biologics and generate cell lines to manufacture them at commercial scale. We looked at the end game getting better medicines to patients, faster and asked: how? We built our technology to be that how. We believe we are replacing the fragmented steps and inefficiencies of the conventional biologic drug discovery and cell line development processes with our fully integrated, end-to-end platform designed to create new and better biologics and accelerate their advancement into clinical trials and ultimately into the marketplace where they can serve patients. Combining innovative approaches, including synthetic biology, high-throughput single-cell screening, and deep learning artificial intelligence (AI), we seek to identify optimal drug candidates by exploring expansive protein sequence solution spaces including considering sequences that nature's evolutionary trajectory has yet to propose. We believe our platform allows us to expand biological possibilities and generate proteins intractable to produce with other technologies to ensure the best drug candidates have the opportunity to become therapeutic realities for patients. Our goal is to enable the creation of better medicines by Translating Ideas into Drugs. We believe commercial applications for novel proteins extend far beyond the realm of therapeutics and into other industries including materials science, industrial chemicals, cosmetics, synthetic foods, and agriculture. Today, we are focused on bringing value to the biopharmaceutical industry and generating better medicines. Our near term vision is to enable discovery of novel, targeted biologic drug candidates, and the cell lines to manufacture them, with the click of a button. Looking ahead, we envision a future in which Absci will be the universal engine creating protein-based solutions to advance the bio-based economy, one protein at a time. Overview We are a drug and target discovery company harnessing deep learning and synthetic biology to expand the therapeutic potential of proteins. We built our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to identify novel drug targets, discover optimal biotherapeutic candidates, and generate the cell lines to manufacture them in a single efficient process. We believe our approach delivers disruptive efficiency, but more importantly enables our partners to create novel and human/AI-designed new-to-nature biologics (next-generation biologics). While next-generation biologics have exciting medical potential and are a rapidly growing field of drug development, because their protein architectures (scaffolds or modalities) are biologically foreign, they present challenges for conventional biologic discovery and cell line development methods. These methods typically involve a linear series of steps to screen and select desired molecular parts and reformat them into their final protein scaffold, and subsequent laborious and often unsuccessful generation of a suitable manufacturing cell line. We are transforming the biologic discovery and cell line development process by rapidly screening up to billions of drug candidates in the desired final protein scaffold that goes into patients and in the scalable manufacturing cell line that scales up for clinical and commercial manufacturing. We couple our powerful deep learning AI models, built to understand and predict determinants of protein function, with our proprietary synthetic biology capabilities, which include high-throughput single cell assays that can evaluate billions of drug sequence variants, each within its production cell line, for target binding affinity, protein quality, and production level (titer). This combination of in silico modeling with wet lab testing allow us to generate immense real-world datasets that we harness to train and refine our deep learning models. These models guide our protein and cell line designs and enable in silico optimization of multiple attributes. In addition, with our Totient Target technology, we use machine learning computational methods to evaluate patient tissue samples and, without biological bias, identify disease-relevant fully human antibodies and their disease- and tissue-specific molecular targets. In addition to the direct utility of these antibodies and targets as drug discovery assets, these data comprising antibody-epitope recognition elements expand our AI models training sets and may improve predictive capabilities for future discovery campaigns. The virtuous cycle, or flywheel effect, enabled by the cycling of our AI predictions, data generation, and AI training, as illustrated below, is what we believe brings us closer to our vision of fully in silico biologic drug 4 Table of Contents discovery and cell line generation with every turn. On the way to the realization of that vision, we believe our unique Integrated Drug Creation approach has the potential to significantly accelerate preclinical development timelines and expand therapeutic possibilities for the biopharmaceutical industry. Our goal is to become the partner of choice for biologic drug discovery and cell line development. As a technology development company, we generate biologic drug candidates and production cell lines for our partners to develop. Our business model is to establish partnerships with biopharmaceutical companies and use our platform for rapid creation of next-generation biologic drug candidates and production cell lines. We classify our applications into two key categories: Discovery and Cell Line Development (CLD). We define Discovery as any projects for which we are evaluating variants of the protein-of-interest, which includes generation of the production cell line, and we define CLD as a program for which the production cell line alone is the goal of the partnership. Our partners are responsible for preclinical and clinical testing of biologics generated using our platform. We expect our partnerships to provide us with the opportunity to participate in the future success of the biologics generated utilizing our platform, through milestone payments as well as royalties on sales by our partners of any approved products. We aim to assemble economic interests in a diversified portfolio of partners next-generation biologic drug candidates across multiple indications. As of December 31, 2021, we had drug candidates in twelve Active Programs (across eight current partners preclinical or clinical pipelines) for which we have negotiated, or expect to negotiate upon completion of certain technology development activities, license agreements with potential downstream milestone payments and royalties. Eight of these Active Programs are focused on developing production cell lines for drug candidates that our partners (Merck & Co., Inc., Xyphos Biotechnology, an Astellas Company (Astellas), Alpha Cancer Technologies, Inc., PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and other undisclosed biotechnology companies) are developing (five preclinical, one Phase 1, one Phase 3, and one animal health). The remaining four Active Programs comprise Discovery applications, including three Discovery programs through our agreement with EQRx and one lead optimization program with Astellas. We define Active Programs as programs that are subject to ongoing technology development activities intended to determine if the program can be pursued by our partner for future clinical development, as well as any program for which our partner obtains and maintains a license to our technology to advance the program after completion of the technology development phase. There is no assurance, however, that our partners will advance any drug candidates that are currently the subject of Active Programs into further preclinical or clinical development or that our partners will elect to license our technologies upon completion of the technology development phase in a timely manner, or at all. 5 Table of Contents Over the last two decades, biologics have emerged as one of the fastest growing class of drugs, with the Evaluate Pharma data reflecting that they account for approximately $254 billion in sales worldwide and represent 12 of the top 20 selling therapeutics in 2020. The majority of recently-approved biologic drugs are monoclonal antibodies, but i nterest and investment are increasingly shifting towards the development of next-generation biologics, which we estimate, based on our analysis of the Evaluate Pharma data, account for 32% of biologics in Phase 1 clinical development today. Despite this increase, we believe that the biopharmaceutical industry remains constrained in pursuing these new biologic modalities because it lacks suitable approaches to efficiently create next-generation biologics. Existing solutions are largely limited to operating within the scope of what nature has already created. They are not adaptable to the full range of possible human-designed scaffolds or to the incorporation of non-standard amino acids (nsAAs) into the protein-of-interest. They do not effectively leverage AI either to derive and apply non-obvious insights across the discovery and manufacturing process development value chain, or to explore potential drug sequences and structures that lie beyond natures boundaries. Our Integrated Drug Creation Platform enables novel target identification, and parallel discovery of next-generation biologics and with optimized production cell lines by uniquely incorporating engineered biodiversity, proprietary high-throughput single cell assays, and deep learning AI models. We use our platform to predict, identify, design, construct, screen, select and scale production of biologic drug candidates for our partners, and we learn from the data we generate. Our designs are AI-informed and our technology platform is scaffold-agnostic. Our AI leverages deep learning models that are trained on our growing datasets. Our datasets delineate detailed determinants of protein function and manufacturability across billions of single-cell experiments. Our single-cell experiments are performed in our patented production cell lines. The foundational technologies that power our platform, and generate and harness the Absci proprietary data, are: SynBio Platform: Our SynBio Platform is our proprietary E. coli -based system for high-throughput evaluation of billions of protein sequence and cell line design variants in parallel. With our SynBio Platform technologies we generate novel drug candidates, manufacturing cell lines, and proprietary data that we use to train our AI models. Our SynBio Platform comprises the four core technology elements described below: SoluPro & Bionic SoluPro: SoluPro is our patented bioproduction system based on bioengineered E. coli . We further engineered our Bionic SoluPro to facilitate site-specific incorporation of nsAAs into what we call Bionic Proteins. We believe our SoluPro cell lines unlock evolutionary opportunities by expanding the biological repertoire of proteins that can be produced to include new-to-nature proteins such as next-generation biologics. Custom Scaffold Libraries: We can design and generate up to billions of drug candidate sequence variants for each Discovery program. Our platform creates libraries in any scaffold our partner specifies, whether natural, pre-existing, or newly invented. These drug candidate sequence libraries are custom because they are specifically generated for each program and scaffold. We can also specify nsAA incorporation sites as we design these libraries. Folding & Expression Solutions: We curate a diverse collection of folding and expression solutions, which are genetic tools that we use to customize SoluPro and optimize production of the desired protein. We create up to billions of different cell lines and measure each cells performance to find the solutions that work best for the protein-of-interest. Breakthrough Assays: Our proprietary Activity-specific Cell Enrichment (ACE) and High-Throughput Proximity Binding (HiPrBind) Assays allow us to evaluate and sort the millions to billions of drug sequences and cell line variants we generate. Tailored for each of our programs, our high-throughput assays can rank and sort billions of cells based on desired parameters such as target affinity, protein quality, and titer. We capture datasets that have the potential to provide us with highly relevant insights about protein function and manufacturability in our system and beyond. Denovium Engine: Our Denovium Engine is an AI technology that includes deep learning computational models of protein function. The Denovium Engine models, trained on our high-quality data that are particularly relevant to our system, generate non-obvious predictions about the impact 6 Table of Contents of amino acid sequence and cell line engineering parameters on a given proteins function and manufacturability. In the future, we expect to use AI to inform the identification of drug target, selection of epitope, and choice of drug scaffold, define the scope of sequence variants to generate, and design the cell line attributes. We believe this technology may eventually enable us to optimize complex solution space fully in silico without the need to physically screen billions of options. Totient Target Technology: Our computational antibody and target discovery technology is a bioinformatics and machine learning-based platform that allows us to computationally reconstruct sequences of human antibodies and other disease-specific proteins from bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data. We can retrospectively select samples from patients who experienced distinct immune responses and assemble sequences of the most highly expressed monoclonal antibodies present in the tissue of interest. We use these antibodies to identify corresponding target proteins (antigens), and thus we uncover both novel and previously recognized immunogenic targets. We are building a library of tissue- and disease-specific target antigens paired with unique human derived antibodies. Our approach is extensible to identifying other disease state-specific macromolecules relevant to therapeutic responses, such as T-cell receptors. These foundational technologies work together as our Integrated Drug Creation Platform. The diagram below depicts the core activities we accomplish on our platform. Our process using our Integrated Drug Creation Platform involves the following steps: Predict: We expect to use our Denovium Engine AI models to generate non-obvious predictions about what are likely to be optimal drug candidate sequences and cell line designs for any protein-of-interest. The AI combines the collective learnings available in public databases with our own experimental data specifically documenting protein functionality and manufacturability factors relevant to our system. Importantly, our Denovium Engine considers sequences and solutions that it has not seen before, and it may predict entirely new-to-nature protein scaffold elements and sequence motifs or design new biologic modalities. In addition, with data we produce through computational antibody and target discovery technology, we intend to train our Denovium Engine to predict likely drug targets from antibody or other binding protein sequences. Identify: Starting with disease tissue samples or bulk RNA sequencing data of interest to our partners, we expect to apply our newly acquired computational antibody and target discovery technology to reconstruct sequences of human monoclonal antibodies that are prevalent in the tissue. With our high-throughput expression system and assay technologies, we believe we can rapidly de- 7 Table of Contents orphan the antibodies, using them as probes to identify their corresponding antigens. Not only are the antigens, whether known or novel, of potential interest as therapeutic targets, but also the fully human antibody sequences themselves may serve as starting points for lead drug candidate design. Design: Based on the program goals, we design custom libraries of protein-of-interest variants in the desired scaffold architecture and specify any desired nsAA placements. Using our Denovium Engine models, we may recommend modifications to the scaffold architecture, as well as define the scope of protein variation to evaluate options beyond sequences that exist in nature. In addition, we also incorporate designs based on folding and expression solutions predicted as relevant by our Denovium Engine models. This entire step is accomplished in silico . Construct: Using synthetic biology approaches, we construct up to billions of genetically distinct SoluPro or Bionic SoluPro cells to evaluate. Each cell contains the instructions to make one version of the protein-of-interest, as well as a different assortment of folding and expression solutions. Screen: Our proprietary high-throughput ACE Assay allows us to evaluate and sort up to billions of cells. We collect subsets of the population of cells that express the best versions of the protein-of-interest (hits), based on target binding, protein quality, and titer. We also collect large datasets on the genetic determinants of protein function and manufacturability in our system that we use to train our Denovium Engine models. Select: With our HiPrBind Assay, using automated multiplexed plate-based methods, we grow micro-batches of each of the thousands of hits from the ACE Assay and perform quantitative characterization of protein function, quality, and titer. We also perform high-throughput biophysical characterization to collect additional data on relevant biophysical attributes that impact developability. We are able to select the best several candidates (leads) in their putative production cell lines for further analytics, as well as collect further data insights to enhance our Denovium Engine models. Scale: We optimize fermentation conditions for the selected lead strain(s) to demonstrate desired productivity, quality, and scalability. We perform comprehensive analytics on the lead drug candidate(s) for evaluation and technology transfer to our partners. Learn: Throughout our process, we generate large and complex datasets specifying determinants of protein function and manufacturability. We use these data to train our Denovium Engine to enable its models to make increasingly refined predictions for target identification, drug scaffold sequence variation, and cell line designs. Our goal is to train the deep learning models with enough data to be able to input a sequence of a new drug target, or even bulk mRNA from a patient, and have the model output a unique, optimal drug candidate sequence and cell line architecture that we construct and confirm: a process that we refer to as de novo biologic drug creation in silico. Because of the flexibility of our platform, we can partner with biopharmaceutical companies to address specific challenges, or we can open up opportunities to create new modalities and generate lead drug candidates that previously had not been possible. Programs we undertake vary across the range of our capabilities, from novel target identification and de novo drug discovery in bespoke scaffolds incorporating nsAAs to development of optimized production systems for existing lead drug candidates. Our goal is to demonstrate the value of our fully integrated approach and expand our work with an increasing number of partners on broad multi-molecule discovery partnerships. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our partners by: Accelerating timelines from idea to drug candidate; Enabling the creation of new biologic modalities; Improving the production capability of next-generation biologics; Designing better drug candidates; and Raising biologics production yields and lowering manufacturing costs. Our initial focus is on enabling the biopharmaceutical industry by transitioning biologic drug discovery and cell line development processes onto our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and providing access to an 8 Table of Contents expanded solution space for drug creation. Over time we envision deploying our platform into other industries as we live by our mission of changing the world, one protein at a time. Impact of COVID-19 We have been dedicated to prioritizing the health and safety of our employees, contractors, vendors and business partners during the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to monitor federal, state and local laws and regulations to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at our workplace. We are responsive to updated guidance and work directly with local health authorities, as appropriate. We have limited business travel to that which is critical to continuation of our business operations, and encouraged employees to work from home wherever possible. We have implemented comprehensive COVID-19 policies and communicate closely with our employees to ensure such policies are followed. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced minor delays and disruptions to our supply chain. For further discussion of the risks relating to our third-party suppliers, see the section titled Risk Factors-Risks related to our operations-We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in many cases, single suppliers, for laboratory equipment and materials and may not be able to find replacements or transition to alternative suppliers on a timely basis, or at all." Strategy We believe we represent a new breed of biotechnology company, integrating powerful artificial intelligence with new synthetic biology technologies to create next-generation biologics. We aim to become a partner of choice to both large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies to enable and empower discovery and cell line development capabilities for biologics. We intend to use our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to empower innovation by identifying new targets, creating new modalities, discovering next-generation biologics, driving efficiencies, broadening pipelines, and accelerating preclinical timelines. Our strategy to accomplish this is as follows: Enable the discovery and development of next-generation biologics and new modalities through our proprietary platform. Our ability to design, construct and rapidly screen large populations of genetically distinct cells enables us to evaluate billions of unique protein variants and increase the probability of finding the most promising biologic drug candidate. We design and optimize new-to-nature modalities with insights from our Denovium Engine models. We also harness the power of nature, using synthetic biology approaches with our E. coli SoluPro strains to produce complex proteins and new modalities. Unlike other biologic drug discovery methods, we evaluate the variants of these desired proteins in the fully-constructed scaffold to enable creation of next-generation biologics while optimizing for target affinity as well as high-titer expression and scalable manufacturability from the beginning of the discovery process. We believe that our platform will empower our partners to bring new and better drugs to market. Accelerate biologic drug discovery and cell line development by unifying these processes as Integrated Drug Creation. Our platform integrates multiple steps across the biologic drug discovery and cell line development process and our foundational technologies that power our Integrated Drug Creation Platform improve efficiencies at each step. Our approach also has the flexibility to address challenges at specific points in the biologic drug discovery and cell line development process and enable our partners to pursue more efficient biologic drug discovery across expanded solution spaces. By accessing our platform, infrastructure and expertise, our partners have the potential to eliminate extended timelines, reduce costs associated with setting up biologic drug discovery applications and cell line process development, and advance their preclinical programs more efficiently. Drive rapid adoption by becoming a partner of choice for large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Many large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies are seeking a partner with technologies, resources and teams to enable next-generation biologic drug discovery and execute on early stage preclinical programs. We strive to form strong partnerships across our target partner base and to drive rapid market adoption through increased business development activities designed to gain new partners and expand our existing partnerships to cover additional programs. We believe our innovative approach and ability to create better biologics faster, along with the scalability of our platform, will enable us to build a diversified 9 Table of Contents portfolio of potential milestone revenues and royalty streams from a variety of next-generation biologics across multiple indications. Advance the promise of in silico drug creation by leveraging proprietary data and AI. Our Denovium Engine AI learns with each new program we undertake. We are enhancing the predictive power of Denovium by training its deep learning models with our unique multi-dimensional data sets. With enough data and iterations, we aim to achieve in silico creation of novel drug candidates with desired pharmacologic attributes, in bespoke scaffolds, along with high titer production cell lines. With our Totient Target technology we are expanding the content of our training datasets to develop models that understand immune protein interactions and determinants of antibody-antigen specificity. Our Denovium AI technology is the link that correlates business scale with speed and precision. The more partners we have, the more data we generate, the more our Denovium Engine learns. As our Denovium Engine gets smarter, we can create new and better biologic constructs for our partners faster. Continuously invest in our platform to push the boundaries of science and unlock the untapped power of biology. We intend to maintain our technological differentiation through investments in teams and technologies, and to continue bolstering our capabilities in areas such as bioinformatics, molecular sciences, biology and chemistry, computation, and protein engineering. We expect to grow and enhance our intellectual property portfolio to protect and secure the value of our innovations. Similar to our acquisitions of Denovium, Inc. and Totient, Inc., we believe we will continue to evaluate strategic technology acquisitions that would be additive to expand and strengthen the capabilities of our platform and deepen our expertise in biologic drug discovery and cell line development. Maintain an entrepreneurial, founder-led, scientifically rigorous, data-driven and inclusive corporate culture. Our founder-led team lives by the mantra: believe in the impossible. We are disrupting the pharmaceutical industry with bold ideas and fulfilling the promise of life-saving medicines for patients by Translating Ideas into Drugs. Each of our team members brings their energy, expertise, and enthusiasm to bear as we pursue the shared mission of changing the world, one protein at a time. Industry Over the last two decades, biologics have been at the forefront of medical advances in a wide range of disease areas including oncology, immunology, infectious and metabolic disease, and many more. Biologics have emerged as one of the fastest growing class of drugs. According to publicly available data aggregated by Evaluate Pharma, the global protein-based biologics market, which we define as including monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), monoclonal antibody conjugates and recombinant products, reached approximately $254 billion in 2020 and is expected to reach $418 billion by 2026, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 9%. Fueled by the medical promise of protein-based drugs, the biopharmaceutical industry has continued to expand its horizons in terms of the different diseases targeted by biologic drug developers as well as the design and different modalities of biologics. The desire by drug developers to manipulate biological mechanisms to fight diseases, explore targets that have not yet been addressed, and succeed in conquering difficult-to-drug targets has led to the development of increasingly complex biologic modalities and the emergence of the field of next-generation biologics. As we define them, next-generation biologics comprise a broad class of new protein-based modalities designed by scientists rather than found in nature. They include modified antibodies such as antibody-drug conjugates and bispecific mAbs, scaffolds based on antibody parts such as Fabs, scFvs, and VHHs, hybrid fusion proteins including T-cell engagers, multivalents, cytokine derivatives, and biologics incorporating nsAAs, and any other new-to-nature protein-based drug imaginable. According to our analysis of Evaluate Pharma data, next-generation biologics currently make up approximately 32% of the Phase 1 protein-based biologics in development. Established methods for biologic drug discovery and cell line development The biologics industry has experienced significant growth and technology advancement, but the process of developing a clinical stage-ready biologic drug candidate remains complex, inefficient, and failure-prone, and is typically accomplished through an assembly of isolated technologies. Generating a clinical stage-ready 10 Table of Contents candidate includes two broad sets of technology development processes: biologic drug discovery and cell line development. Conventional Biologic Drug Discovery: Given a target, conventional methods for biologic drug discovery involve fishing for hits that bind the target using methods such as phage display, yeast display or immune cell screening. Unless the hits are already in the desired scaffold, they then must undergo a molecular reformatting step to incorporate the hits into the desired scaffold. It is only once assembled that these leads can be evaluated. This reformatting is a low throughput one-by-one process that is prone to challenges such as loss of target specificity once the hit is reformatted into the lead scaffold, or inability to make enough of the lead to even evaluate its promise as a drug candidate. The discovery process, including screening, reformatting, and lead optimization, occurs across several technologies outside of the eventual production cell lines. Conventional Cell Line Development: Biologics must be biologically synthesized in bespoke cell lines, rather than chemically synthesized like small molecule drugs. Development of cell lines suitable for manufacturing at scale is undertaken only after lead candidates have been selected using transient cell lines for expression. With conventional methods, stable manufacturing cell line development involves introducing a lead candidate into the host cell line, typically Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, and then laboriously optimizing conditions and strain characteristics for scalable production of the new drug candidate, if possible. The limited adaptability of CHO cell lines and engineering challenges have constrained the scope of protein-based drugs that can be successfully developed. This can be particularly true for next-generation biologics, which may be impossible to produce with conventional approaches. The below diagram illustrates the general steps of established approaches for biologic drug discovery and manufacturing cell line development: Limitations of existing approaches With conventional fragmented approaches, preclinical timelines are extensive. According to a 2010 publication in Nature Reviews Drug Discovery authored by Paul and colleagues, the time from target discovery to IND was estimated at approximately 5.5 years. Moreover, the authors concluded that failure rates are high, with roughly only one in three lead drug candidates advancing to clinical testing in patients. For those drug candidates that do enter Phase 1 testing, the same publication estimated that 12% go on to receive marketing authorization, taking another eight years to do so. We believe that these long timelines and high failure rates are reflective of an industry reliant on aging systems and processes. It is our view that existing approaches are burdened by the design constraints of their technologies evolution, with the current processes representing the culmination of many iterations on the first technologies employed by the industry. New technologies may be tacked on to add incremental expansion of capabilities, but on the whole, the biologic drug discovery and cell line development processes remain fragmented and reliant on legacy component tools. This fragmentation of the processes discourages innovative potential, especially since the current approaches are not readily adaptable to development of next-generation biologics. We believe the industry suffers from the following challenges and limitations of existing solutions: Current methods involve fragmented steps and a patchwork of outdated technologies; new technologies generally focus on isolated steps and do not integrate the processes. We believe drug developers primarily use legacy technologies and fragmented processes to accomplish discrete steps in either biologic drug discovery or cell line development. Moving between steps in the process and different technologies may not be seamless, introducing inefficiencies and creating 11 Table of Contents insurmountable hurdles to advancement of a promising drug candidate. While new technologies and new methods for hit identification or cell line development have been commercialized, these methods do not allow for discovery screening to be performed while the candidate is in its production cell line and therefore cannot enable discovery of a new biologic in parallel with generating its production cell line. As a result, even with updated technologies, established methods contribute to long development timelines and low probabilities of success. Commercially available biologic drug discovery platforms are generally constrained as to the types of biologic modalities they can explore. We believe that most of the current approaches to biologic drug discovery impose technological and biological limitations as to the nature of proteins that can be evaluated. High diversity and high-throughput methods are primarily capable of identifying target specificity of small protein fragments or variants of native mammalian proteins. Consequently, newly-designed proteins in novel scaffolds generally require laborious one by one evaluation and/or screening by parts and then iterative assembly into the full scaffold. Similarly, conventional methods do not facilitate efficient discovery of new-to-nature proteins that incorporate nsAAs, a desirable feature for post purification chemical modifications. Constraints on the nature of screenable proteins limit the breadth of opportunities for discovery, and may result in suboptimal lead candidates, extended timelines and susceptibility to failure at different steps throughout the process. Current approaches to biologic drug production are not readily adaptable to novel protein modalities. Proteins require biological assembly by cellular machinery. Developers of more complex biotherapeutics such as monoclonal antibodies have adapted CHO cells to be reasonably adept bioproduction hosts. However, generation of a CHO cell line to produce any new biologic is not trivial, and an adequate cell line generally takes a year or more to develop. In addition, CHO systems have limited flexibility to produce next-generation modalities; the mammalian cells are difficult to engineer and are not adapted or adaptable to make new-to-nature proteins such as those built in novel scaffolds or incorporating nsAAs. The challenge of generating high-titer manufacturing cell lines is a critical impediment to advancing many novel biologic drug candidates into and through clinical development. Current approaches do not leverage artificial intelligence to explore beyond opportunities within nature. The scale and complexity of proteins present significant challenges for developing biotherapeutics. There are more potential protein variants than can ever be evaluated even with the highest throughput approaches. While some computational insights are being gained from experimental observations, there are few if any existing biotherapeutic drug design approaches that make impactful use of high-throughput data in combination with machine learning. We believe there is lost opportunity to train and use deep learning models to predict promising new proteins that lie outside the bounds of what already exists in nature or even what human intelligence can rationally design. The biopharmaceutical industry is still in the early days of augmenting human efforts with artificial intelligence, operating within the bounds of sequence similarities to natural precursors, even when considering functional impact. Existing production organisms, or systems, can be inefficient and costly. The vast majority of biopharmaceutical production processes today rely on CHO cell systems. The ongoing drug product costs of operating CHO cell bioproduction processes are high due to the nature of the cells growth characteristics and requirements. As reported by Tripathi and Shrivastava in Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology (2019), CHO cells grow slowly and at low densities, so a single production run generally requires 10 to 14 days of growth in the bioreactor, which limits batch cycles and plant flexibility. The overall productivity of a CHO cell line producing a drug candidate at a 5 gram/liter titer may be less than half a gram per liter per day on average due to the extended growth cycle. Costly growth media and the requirement for downstream viral clearance steps also contribute to the high cost of CHO processes. As a result of these limitations, we believe the biopharmaceutical industry can benefit from a newly-designed approach that incorporates the best current technologies and AI to accomplish the goal of discovering and advancing promising new biologic drug candidates into clinical development as quickly as possible. 12 Table of Contents Our Integrated Drug Creation Platform We built our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to create next-generation biologics including those that lie beyond the scope of nature. To achieve this, we leverage synthetic biology technologies, engineered biodiversity, proprietary functional assays and data-driven deep learning computational models to discover novel disease- and tissue-specific drug targets and next-generation biologic drug candidates while generating optimized production cell lines in parallel. Our platform enables functional evaluation of billions of variants of desired proteins, including complex biologic drug candidates, with simultaneous generation of scalable production cell lines, all in a time- and cost-effective manner. We screen in the desired scaffold format and in the scalable manufacturing cell line. We believe our platform is the only commercially available solution with this capability, enabling costly and lengthy processes to be collapsed into one integrated step. We use our platform to predict, identify, design, construct, screen, select and scale production of biologic drug candidates for our partners, and learn from the data we generate. Our designs are AI-informed and our technology platform is scaffold-agnostic. Our AI leverages deep learning models that are trained on our growing datasets. Our datasets delineate detailed determinants of protein function and manufacturability across billions of single-cell experiments. Our single-cell experiments are performed in our patented production cell lines. The foundational technologies that power our platform, and generate and harness the Absci proprietary data, are: SynBio Platform: Our SynBio Platform is our proprietary E. coli -based system for high-throughput evaluation of billions of protein sequence and cell line design variants in parallel. With our SynBio Platform technologies we generate novel drug candidates, manufacturing cell lines, and proprietary data that we use to train our AI models. It comprises the four core technology elements described below: SoluPro & Bionic SoluPro: SoluPro is our patented bioproduction system based on bioengineered E. coli. Using synthetic biology techniques, we designed SoluPro to be our chassis cell line. We believe our SoluPro unlocks evolutionary opportunities by expanding the biological repertoire of proteins that can be produced to include complex new-to-nature proteins such as next-generation biologics. We further engineered a version of SoluPro to facilitate site-specific incorporation of nsAAs into proteins for scaled production. We refer to these nsAA-containing proteins as Bionic Proteins and the SoluPro strain we use to produce them as Bionic SoluPro. Custom Scaffold Libraries: We can design and generate custom collections of drug candidate sequence variants for each Discovery program, starting with whatever scaffold our partner specifies, whether natural, pre-existing, or newly-invented, and building out up to billions of different versions to test. These libraries are specifically generated for each program and scaffold, and our AI predictions coupled with our ability to generate libraries in any given scaffold allow us to consider relevant variants that nature could not have proposed. We can also specify nsAA incorporation sites as we design these libraries. Folding & Expression Solutions: We curate a diverse collection of folding and expression solutions, which are genetic tools that we use to customize SoluPro and optimize production of the desired protein. Each protein we work on has different characteristics when it comes to manufacturability factors, and with the folding and expression solutions parts library and our synthetic biology methods, we create up to billions of different cell lines and measure each cells performance to find the solutions that work best for the protein-of-interest. The folding and expression solutions collectively comprise an expansive set of genetic modules and techniques we have assembled including ribosome binding site sequences, molecular chaperones, and codon-optimization conventions. Breakthrough Assays: Our proprietary ACE and HiPrBind Assays allow us to evaluate and sort the millions to billions of drug sequence and cell line variants we generate. Tailored for each of our programs, our high-throughput assays can rank and sort billions of cells based on desired parameters such as target affinity, protein quality, and titer. We are also able to capture datasets correlating protein sequence variants and folding and expression solutions with cell line characteristics. These large, highly complex datasets have the potential to provide us with highly relevant insights about protein function and manufacturability in our system and beyond. 13 Table of Contents Denovium Engine: Our Denovium Engine is an AI technology that includes deep learning computational models of protein function. The Denovium Engine models, trained on our high-quality data that are particularly relevant to our system, generate non-obvious predictions about the impact of amino acid sequence and cell line characteristics on a given proteins function and manufacturability. A deep learning neural network approach is well-suited to our complex datasets because the models learn what is relevant to the specific objective, without human annotation or bias. We expect the capabilities of the Denovium Engine to grow with each new set of data we generate and input. In the future, we intend to use AI to inform the identification of drug target, selection of epitope, and choice of drug scaffold, define the scope of sequence variants to generate, and design the cell line attributes. We believe this technology may eventually enable us to optimize complex solution space fully in silico without the need to physically screen billions of options. Totient Target Technology: Our computational antibody and target discovery technology is a bioinformatics and machine learning-based platform that allows us to reconstruct sequences of antibodies and other disease-specific proteins from bulk RNA-Seq data. We can retrospectively select samples from patients who experienced distinct immune responses and assemble sequences of the most highly expressed monoclonal antibodies present in the tissue of interest. We use these antibodies to identify corresponding target proteins (antigens), and thus we uncover both novel and previously recognized immunogenic targets. We are building a library of tissue- and disease-specific target antigens paired with unique fully human antibodies. Our approach is extensible to identifying other disease state-specific macromolecules relevant to therapeutic responses, such as T-cell receptors. We perform our process using our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to predict biologically interesting variants, identify novel disease targets, design custom libraries of sequence variants, construct diverse populations of cells with these libraries and our folding and expression solutions, screen and sort these cells based on our desired criteria, select lead drug candidate/cell line combinations having the desired functionality and manufacturability qualities, optimize these leads for scaled manufacturing readiness, and learn by feeding data from our multitude of single cell experiments into our AI models to continually refine our predictions. Our process using our Integrated Drug Creation Platform includes the following steps: Predict: We expect to use our Denovium Engine AI models to generate non-obvious predictions about what are likely to be optimal drug candidate sequences and cell line designs for any protein-of-interest. The AI combines the collective learnings available in public databases with our own experimental data specifically documenting protein functionality and manufacturability factors relevant to our system. Importantly, our Denovium Engine considers sequences and solutions that it has not seen before, and it may predict entirely new-to-nature protein scaffold elements and sequence motifs or design new biologic modalities. In addition, with data we produce through 14 Table of Contents computational antibody and target discovery technology, we intend to train our Denovium Engine to predict likely drug targets from tissue-derived antibody or other binding protein sequences. Identify: Starting with disease tissue samples or bulk RNA-Seq data of interest to our partners, we expect to apply our newly acquired computational antibody and target discovery technology to reconstruct sequences of human monoclonal antibodies that are prevalent in the tissue. With our high-throughput expression system and assay technologies, we believe we can rapidly de-orphan the antibodies, using them as probes to identify their corresponding antigens. Not only are the antigens, whether known or novel, of potential interest as therapeutic targets, but also the fully human antibody sequences themselves may serve as starting points for lead drug candidate design. Design: Based on the program goals we design custom libraries of protein-of-interest variants in the desired scaffold architecture and specify any desired nsAA placements. This entire step is accomplished in silico , and we incorporate predictions our Denovium Engine models have extracted from our proprietary datasets to improve our designs. We design the synthetic biology components at the DNA level, including gene(s) for the protein-of-interest that will encode the potential future drug candidates. We design custom plasmid libraries for each program we undertake. Plasmids are the carriers of the DNA for the protein-of-interest that will ultimately be delivered into the cell line. We may start with a generic DNA sequence for the desired scaffold and, using our AI predictions, define the parameters of the sequence variation to be evaluated for discovery and/or any targeted nsAA placements. Having designed the gene-of-interest sequences, we augment the computational plasmid designs with a random assortment or selected range of our synthetic biology folding and expression solutions that are included to impart characteristics to the cell lines that optimize production of the protein-of-interest. Construct: Using synthetic biology approaches, we construct up to billions of genetically distinct SoluPro or Bionic SoluPro cells to evaluate. Each cell contains the instructions to make one version of the protein-of-interest, as well as a different assortment of folding and expression solutions. We synthesize the designed plasmid libraries and deliver them into our host organism, creating a large population of these host cells for screening. These populations of distinct plasmids modify our base SoluPro strains and generate a large population of genetically distinct cells. The population of cells is cultivated under manufacturing-relevant fermentation conditions to induce production of the protein-of-interest for screening. Screen: We screen this large population of cells for the desired characteristics using our proprietary ACE Assay, which enables rapid identification of hits from large genetically diverse populations of cells. The ACE Assay is a binding-based assay that allows us to sort SoluPro cells based on protein-of-interest functionality (such as target affinity) as well as expression level (titer). To accomplish this, we introduce fluorescently labeled binding targets (e.g., the antigen against which we are trying to develop a drug) and use fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) to evaluate and sort each cell based on how brightly it fluoresces. Using proprietary methods, we correlate the fluorescent signal with the quantity, quality, and function of the protein-of-interest, and thus we utilize the ACE Assay to characterize millions or billions of independent strains and collect the desired variants based on the parameters we set. In this way we are quickly able to identify the most promising subset of cells from among millions or billions. Our ACE Assay is compatible with a diverse range of protein modalities, including next-generation biologics. We are also generating billions of data points describing sequence modifications and combinations of folding solutions contributing to protein affinity, solubility and manufacturability that we use to train our Denovium Engine deep learning model. Select: We use our proprietary HiPrBind Assay to select the best leads from among the screened hits. For expanded clonal populations of each of the hits identified we can quantitatively evaluate and characterize functional parameters of the protein-of-interest such as target binding affinity, titer, and product quality. Our proprietary techniques allow us to discriminate between full length properly folded protein and any other improperly folded or incomplete product-related impurities, in a fully quantitative manner, and again collect the data for training the Denovium Engine models. Like the ACE Assay, the HiPrBind Assay is designed to be readily adaptable to a diverse range of protein modalities. We also perform high-throughput biophysical characterization to collect additional data on relevant biophysical attributes that impact developability. We are able to select the best several candidates (leads) in their putative production cell lines for further analytics, as well as collect further data insights to enhance our Denovium Engine models. 15 Table of Contents Scale: We optimize fermentation conditions for the selected lead strain(s) to demonstrate desired productivity, quality, and scalability. Having narrowed the cell population down from millions or billions to closer to a dozen, we employ several banks of state-of-the-art 250 mL fed batch fermenters to perform fermentation process optimization using design of experiments (DOE) methodologies to identify scalable production processes. To generate purified material for internal analytics and evaluation by our partners, we use standard chromatography purification methods to make small batches of protein-of-interest from the selected strains. We perform comprehensive protein analytics to evaluate product quality and purity, and we generate cell banks and documentation suitable for technology transfer to partners or the contract manufacturers they specify. Learn: Throughout our process, we generate large and complex datasets specifying determinants of protein function and manufacturability. We use these data to train our Denovium Engine to enable its models to make increasingly refined predictions for target identification, drug scaffold sequence variation and cell line design. Our goal is to train the deep learning models with enough data to be able to input a sequence of a new drug target, or even bulk mRNA from a patient, and have the model output a unique, optimal drug candidate sequence and cell line architecture that we construct and confirm: a process that we refer to as de novo biologic drug creation in silico. Applications of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform Our platform is flexible, and we are able to onboard a given program at multiple points in the biologic target identification, drug discovery, and cell line development process. Starting with a given target and a desired scaffold format for an eventual drug candidate, we may perform comprehensive de novo biologic drug discovery through to cell line development. We may enhance discovery opportunities with our partners by building new scaffolds and designing new molecules to incorporate nsAAs to facilitate post-purification chemical modifications. We may further expand program scope to start with target identification activities incorporating our Totient Target technology. We may also design and optimize a high titer production cell line for a partners already-established lead drug candidate. We classify our applications into two key categories: Discovery and CLD. Since we deliver a production cell line for each of our projects, we define Discovery as any projects for which we are evaluating variants of the protein-of-interest, and we define CLD as a program for which the production cell line alone is the goal of the partnership. Discovery: We commercially launched ou r initial Discovery applications in December 2020, and to date we have one Discovery program underway for lead optimization. Discovery involves screening for lead drug hits directed to the desired target; the target may be provided by a partner or identified using our computational antibody and target discovery technology. Unlike other commonly used screening methods used for biologic drug discovery, we are screening for hit variants in the complete 16 Table of Contents scaffold, not a domain fragment to be subsequently reformatted. We also screen in production cell line variants. Our Discovery applications are scaffold-agnostic. Whether we are screening variants of an antibody, a T-cell engager, a multivalent Fc-fusion, or any other human- or AI-designed modality, our platform is adaptable to simultaneously optimize for functionality and manufacturability of lead candidates. We believe there is no other commercially available solution that enables comprehensive scaffold-agnostic drug discovery in the desired scaffold format. The Discovery applications that we currently or in the future expect to address with our Integrated Drug Creation Platform are the following: Novel target identification - From tissue samples that are of particular therapeutic interest, we identify prevalent immune-response molecules such as antibodies along with the corresponding antigens, offering new therapeutic targets as well as cognate binding partners for further validation. Whatever the desired biologic modality, we can design, construct, and select the appropriate sequence for lead drug development. And we create an optimized production cell line. Scaffold design and drug platform development - We are uniquely capable of assembling and producing new-to-nature next-generation biologic scaffolds. We may therefore empower our partners with the ability to execute on theoretical modalities, creative fusions, and multivalent molecular hybrids. Within the context of those assembled scaffolds we can evaluate variants to discover new drug candidates designed for optimal target affinity and other desired characteristics. And we create optimized production cell lines. De novo discovery - We may perform de novo discovery by starting with a desired scaffold format for the desired drug and creating a library of relevant sequence variants that will establish the target specificity (e.g., CDR regions of antibody). And we create an optimized production cell line. Bionic Protein creation (nsAA incorporation) - We may engineer a signal into the gene encoding the drug candidate that directs incorporation of an nsAA into the growing protein chain in a site-specific manner. The nsAA provides a handle for chemical modifications including glycosylation, PEGylation, ADC-payload conjugation, and novel branched proteins and chemical conjugates. And we create an optimized production cell line. Human antibody discovery - From our catalog of human-derived antibody sequences we are building a collection of unique fully-human monoclonal antibodies with specificity for validated targets of interest. We may optimize monoclonal antibodies or next-generation biologics derived from these sequences as lead drug candidates in partnered programs. And we create an optimized production cell line. Lead optimization - We may start with drug discovery leads and introduce modifications into the sequences to evaluate variants for improved target affinity, manufacturability, and other pharmacologic characteristics. Thus we can optimize leads that our partners may advance through preclinical development. And we create an optimized production cell line. Cell Line Development: We launched our CLD applications in 2018, as our first commercial offering, and all but one of our ongoing programs are for CLD. We classify a program as CLD only when the production cell line alone is the goal of the partnership, or in other words, when the sequence of the lead drug candidate is locked in. Fundamentally, the process utilizing our Integrated Drug Creation Platform is the same as for our Discovery programs, except that the plasmid libraries we design include a fixed lead drug sequence, with variation limited to the assortment of the folding and expression solutions. Screening and selection steps are aimed at identifying the cell lines with highest titer expression of the drug candidate. Partners typically have come to us with late-preclinical or clinical-stage next-generation biologics for which they have not been able to develop a manufacturing process or for which an existing manufacturing process is poorly performing. As we succeed in these CLD programs, we believe we enable the advancement of next-generation biologic candidates that otherwise would not proceed in development due to manufacturability challenges. 17 Table of Contents Advantages of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform Our platform integrates biologic drug discovery and cell line development processes, accomplishing these activities in parallel rather than sequentially, as illustrated relative to established approaches in the figure below. We have designed our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to provide the following potential benefits for our partners: Accelerated timelines from idea to drug candidate: Our platform integrates biologic drug discovery and cell line development, collapsing time-consuming fragmented activities into one integrated process. Because from the start we screen for hits in the desired scaffold format and in the cell line that will scale up for manufacturing, we can bypass common failure points and avoid the need for molecular reformatting or subsequent cell line development. We optimize drug candidate properties and cell line performance in parallel from the outset of the project. We leverage our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and foundational technologies to accelerate novel target identification, biologic drug discovery, and cell line development timelines, whether we start with a lead candidate for which a partner needs a cell line, a new target against which a partner wants to create a next-generation drug candidate, or a scope that falls somewhere in between. Depending on the complexity of the project and the priorities specified by the partner, we can create a cell line for a defined biologic in as little as 10 days. Our timelines for CLD may enable transition from gene to production of material designed to comply with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) requirements in six months, versus one to two years for standard CHO cell line development. Because 18 Table of Contents our discovery occurs in the same process, we expect to meet similar timelines with our Discovery programs. Our timelines relative to industry standards are depicted in the figure below. Creation of new biologic modalities: Our Discovery applications are scaffold-agnostic. We use a synthetic biology approach and harness the power of nature using our SoluPro strains, which we have bioengineered to produce complex proteins rapidly and effectively. Utilizing our Integrated Drug Creation Platform, we specialize in creating new biologic modalities, discovering next-generation biologics in engineered scaffolds, and creating Bionic Proteins that incorporate nsAAs. Unlike other biologic drug discovery methods, from our initial screens we are looking for hit variants in the fully-constructed scaffold, not a domain fragment to be subsequently reformatted. By screening in the fully assembled molecular format and in the scalable production cell line, any leads we identify are designed to be readily manufacturable. Thus, we expect to enable entirely new biologic opportunities and reduce frustrating and costly preclinical failures that impede advancement of new-to-nature next-generation biologics. Efficient production of complex biologics: We have bioengineered our SoluPro strains to excel at producing a wide variety of complex proteins. SoluPro overcomes the challenges encountered in using E. coli strains to synthesize complex biologics that first led the industry to turn to CHO cells. With our Integrated Drug Creation Platform, we deploy our synthetic biology toolkit and our folding and expression solutions libraries to customize the scaffold-agnostic base SoluPro strains to enable high titer production of the proteins we address. We are not restricted to making proteins that look like proteins found in nature; our SoluPro strains are readily adaptable to making biologics in new scaffolds or incorporating nsAAs. Because of the scope and throughput of our assays, we can evaluate millions or billions of potential strains to efficiently identify configurations of folding and expression solutions that confer optimal protein production performance. Design of better drug candidates based on AI predictions: We use deep learning artificial intelligence models trained on our proprietary datasets as well as functional characteristics of millions of proteins represented in public databases to design new drug candidates to have desired pharmacologic performance without constraining ourselves to what nature has already discovered. We evaluate up to billions of distinct cell lines for each project. In addition to identifying the best performing drug sequences and cell lines, we are also generating immense datasets with the goal of substantiating and differentiating the relevant from the irrelevant, the optimal from the contraindicated, in the solution space of target specificity, drug sequence variation, and folding solutions. We harness this evidence to progressively train our deep learning Denovium Engine, which then outputs progressively more relevant and valuable predictions to direct our synthetic constructions. We believe this highly specialized deep learning approach is differentiated by both the technology that underpins the Denovium Engine and the proprietary data we feed it. Our Denovium 19 Table of Contents Engine models enable multi-parameter predictions and simultaneous optimization of attributes in parallel, making predictions that solve for desired attributes such as bioavailability, stability, immunogenicity, as well as target affinity and manufacturability. We believe that insights we achieve through the integration of deep learning will ultimately help identify the new drug candidates with the best chances for clinical success. Increase manufacturing productivity and reduce costs: Beyond the savings afforded by reduced failure rates and accelerated timelines, we believe our SoluPro cell lines high productivity can translate into significant reductions in drug substance cost of goods. We estimate that biologic drug substance cost of goods saving could be on the order of 50% relative to CHO production systems, the most widely used system in the biopharmaceutical industry today. As discussed by Tripathi and Shrivastava in Recent Developments in Bioprocessing of Recombinant Proteins: Expression Hosts and Process Development in Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology (2019), and according to our experience, the primary determinant is the rapid and high-density growth of E. coli SoluPro relative to CHO cell lines; the SoluPro bioreactor growth cycle time is 1-2 days, as compared to 10-14 days for CHO cell lines. Given cell lines that achieve comparable protein production titers in SoluPro and CHO systems, the SoluPro systems productivity would be roughly 5-10 times that of the CHO system on a grams per liter per day basis. In addition, SoluPro has other advantages associated with the use of E. coli as a biomanufacturing organism. In particular, its growth media ingredients are lower cost relative to the media required for mammalian cells, viral clearance studies are unnecessary, and heterogeneous glycosylation patterns do not hamper drug product quality or characterization. Our Market Our market opportunity is driven by the number of biologic candidates we generate and the successful development and commercialization of these candidates by our partners. As reflected in the Evaluate Pharma data, there are currently 1,250 companies involved in developing and marketing over 4,950 protein-based biologics, which we define as including candidates categorized as monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), monoclonal antibody conjugates (ADCs), and recombinant products (comprising novel fusion proteins as well as numerous conventional recombinant proteins, peptides, and hormones), but excluding those categorized as cell therapies, DNA and RNA based therapies, gene therapies, plasma-derived therapies, and vaccines. In 2020, cumulative global sales of these protein-based biologics reached approximately $254 billion, representing 33% of the sales of all drugs. In 2020, 72 protein-based biologics reached blockbuster status with annual worldwide sales higher than $1.0 billion. Of the total protein-based biologics sales, mAbs represent approximately 63%, with average per product peak sales of $2.7 billion (median $1.3 billion). The protein-based biologics market is expected to reach $418 billion by 2026, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 9%. In the near term, we are focused on the next-generation biologics market, which we estimate based on our analysis of the Evaluate Pharma data to represent approximately 32% of protein-based biologics in Phase 1 clinical development. We estimate next-generation biologics represent a similar proportion of the 2,539 preclinical protein-based biologics. While our Integrated Drug Creation Platform is suited to generation of any type of protein-based biologic, we believe our capabilities are especially differentiated in the area of next-generation biologics. We expect our future programs to be principally in this category as we seek to provide an avenue to expand the number and variety of next-generation biologics 20 Table of Contents in development by our existing and future partners, including with the addition of nsAA-containing Bionic Proteins to their pipelines. The figures below illustrate the number of protein-based biologics in each phase of development, including our estimate of the number of next-generation biologics in preclinical development, and the projected sales of protein-based biologics. Other market opportunities Proteins are fundamental components of a wide variety of current or potential biological products. We believe our platform is applicable beyond the biopharmaceutical market, including into markets such as diagnostics, materials science, agriculture, industrial, animal health, cosmetics and synthetic food. While our initial focus is on the biopharmaceutical market, we recognize there are broad market opportunities in these additional industries, and we may pursue those opportunities in due course. For example, we currently have one program in animal health. Our Business Model and Partnerships Our business model differs from the traditional biotechnology company model. As a technology development company, we generate biologic drug candidates and production cell lines for our partners to develop. Our business model is to establish partnerships with biopharmaceutical companies and use our Integrated Drug Creation Platform for rapid creation of next-generation biologic drug candidates and production cell lines. We are invested in the clinical and commercial success of the product candidates generated for our partners using our Integrated Drug Creation Platform. We expect that our partnerships will provide us with the opportunity to participate in the future success of the biologics generated utilizing our platform, through potential clinical, regulatory and commercial milestone payments as well as royalties on net sales of approved products. We aim to assemble economic interests in a diversified portfolio of partners next-generation biologics across multiple indications. We believe our business model is capital efficient as our partners fund our technology development work, and we do not invest in clinical development or scaled manufacturing infrastructure. We structure our partnerships as technology development agreements (each molecule we address for Discovery or CLD is a program) with options for our partners to license intellectual property rights to the biological assets we create after completion of the technology development phase. For the technology 21 Table of Contents development phase, partners may (i) provide a target for discovery of a new next-generation biologic and/or Bionic Protein or novel scaffold, (ii) supply a specified lead drug candidate sequence for cell line development, or (iii) request a scope that falls somewhere in between (i) and (ii) with optimization of a lead candidate or set of candidates as the primary goal. Regardless of the scope, the biology we ultimately provide to our partners is a manufacturing-ready cell line expressing the new or partner-provided protein-of-interest. For most future partnerships, we expect to negotiate and agree to downstream economic terms of any license to our intellectual property rights before initiating the technology development phase. We anticipate that these technology development and license agreements may provide us with rights to receive payments upon the achievement of various clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones for the applicable product candidates, as well as royalties on net sales at least during the marketing exclusivity period of candidates approved for commercialization. As of December 31, 2021, we had drug candidates in twelve Active Programs (across eight current partners preclinical or clinical pipelines) for which we have negotiated, or expect to negotiate upon completion of certain technology development activities, license agreements with potential downstream milestone payments and royalties. Eight of these Active Programs are focused on developing production cell lines for drug candidates that our partners (Merck & Co., Inc., Xyphos Biotechnology, Astellas, Alpha Cancer Technologies, Inc., PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and other undisclosed biotechnology companies) are developing (five preclinical, one Phase 1, one Phase 3, and one animal health). The remaining four Active Programs comprise Discovery applications, including three Discovery programs through our agreement with EQRx and one lead optimization program with Astellas. We define Active Programs as programs that are subject to ongoing technology development activities intended to determine if the program can be pursued by our partner for future clinical development, as well as any program for which our partner obtains and maintains a license to our technology to advance the program after completion of the technology development phase. There is no assurance, however, that our partners will advance any drug candidates that are currently the subject of Active Programs into further preclinical or clinical development or that our partners will elect to license our technologies upon completion of the technology development phase in a timely manner, or at all. In addition to our twelve Active Programs, we have also completed CLD technology development for 22 additional molecules. These historical programs were both internal research programs and technology development programs with third parties, and they were intended to demonstrate our platforms capabilities as we addressed successively broader ranges of biologics and next-generation modalities. We did not transfer technology or grant licenses related to these programs, and we anticipate no further revenue or other downstream payments. The following table summarizes the biologic modalities for all of our current and historical programs, including our Active Programs: Biologic Modality # of Programs Active Programs All Programs Bispecific mAb 1 1 Bispecific T-cell engager 2 3 Cytokine 1 2 Fab* 1 4 Multivalent Fc*-fusion 2 2 Plasma protein 1 1 mAb 1 4 Fc-fusion 3 scFv*-fusion 2 VHH*-fusion 2 Enzyme 2 Hormone 5 Not specified 3 3 Total 12 34 * Fab = antigen-binding fragment; Fc = crystallizable fragment; scFv = single-chain variable fragment; VHH = single variable domain on a heavy chain (nanobody) 22 Table of Contents * Commercial Our commercial strategy centers on entering into technology development partnerships with companies involved in biologic drug development, with a focus on the biopharmaceutical industry. Our goal is to secure new partners and expand our relationships with existing partners by solving challenges they face in discovery and cell line development and by enabling creation of new biologic modalities. With initial success, we aim to increase the number of molecules with each partner, as well as expand the application of our platform across each partners discovery and cell line development activities. Our business strategy involves forming partnerships with biopharmaceutical companies of all sizes and enabling our partners to bring their ideas to fruition. We currently have a core business development team raising awareness of our platform within the biopharmaceutical industry and establishing adoption through partnerships. We are initially focusing our business development efforts on large pharmaceutical companies with the potential to create multi-program opportunities, as well as biotechnology companies that are, or desire to be, leaders in next-generation biologics creation. We expect to partner with companies that are highly enabled and at the forefront of next-generation biologics but which may have had limited success due to technological challenges. We also expect to partner with companies that may have some presence in biologics but limited capabilities in novel biologic drug discovery and are looking to expand their pipelines. We also see opportunities to partner with focused biotechnology companies that are highly enabled with a biologics platform or multi-product pipeline but limited capabilities in drug discovery or cell line development. We expect these companies to seek access to our integrated platform to improve the quality of their lead drug candidates and enable development of scalable manufacturing cell lines to accelerate their development efforts and push the frontier of therapeutics. We also have an alliance management team focused on supporting our successful partnership programs and growing our relationships with existing partners to include additional biologic candidates as well as expand to broader discovery programs. We believe that exceptional alliance management execution is critical to the success of our existing partnership programs and to transforming first-time partners into repeat and broad scope collaborators. We emphasize mutually beneficial partnerships through alignment of performance objectives, and we foster our partners as champions of our technology. We expect to expand our business development and alliance management teams significantly as we scale our business in the near term. Our Growth Strategy Our goal is to establish our proprietary, end-to-end platform as the industry standard for biologic drug discovery and cell line development. We are laying the groundwork for integration into our partners discovery organizations, with the goal to be the de facto starting point for new drug creation. Our growth strategy is to: Establish new partnerships to create biologic drug candidates. We believe that our platform has a clear and differentiated value proposition for biologic drug discovery and cell line development. We have been successful in attracting initial partners, and we are continuing to expand our capabilities and enhance our platform to offer an even more powerful integrated solution. Given the increasing level of biopharmaceutical industry interest in creating novel biologics, we believe there is a large untapped market of potential partners ranging from traditional large pharmaceutical companies to emerging biotechnology innovators who can realize benefits from our platform. We believe that we offer a way to transcend the discovery and production challenges faced by the many companies that are investing in developing innovative new protein-based medicines. As we continue to establish our platform as the go-to solution for biologic drug creation, we expect to continue to attract new partners. We employ a business development team focused on raising awareness of our capabilities and establishing new partnerships. Increase the number of molecules on which we work with our existing partners. We believe that achieving technical success with an existing partners drug candidate is the best proof of concept, and we intend to leverage those successes to expand our existing partnerships to address additional molecules in our partners respective pipelines. Partners may have a unique scaffold upon which they build successive drug candidates, hence pursuing additional programs based on the same scaffold is a clear opportunity for expanding existing partnerships. Regardless of modality, we expect to generate additional business from existing partners as they experience firsthand the success and efficiency of 23 Table of Contents our platform. Our alliance management team is focused on supporting our partnership success and growing the number of molecules on which work with our partners. Expand the scope of our partnerships across the biologic drug discovery and cell line development value chain. We launched our CLD applications in 2018 and our initial Discovery applications in December 2020. Our goal is to expand our partnerships to apply a broader set of our platform capabilities, including both Discovery and CLD. Because we launched our CLD applications first, we have historically initiated our partnerships with CLD programs for lead drug candidates that have proven challenging to produce. CLD program partners often become interested in our Discovery applications, which include novel target identification, lead optimization, de novo discovery, Bionic Protein creation (nsAA incorporation), human antibody discovery, and the enablement of novel scaffold designs that could spawn new modalities. We look to expand the scope of partnerships to address additional classes of molecules, thereby presenting additional milestone and royalty opportunities. We intend to continue to invest in growing our platforms capabilities and aim to expand our applications to offer even more comprehensive solutions for our partners. Create new biologic modalities and novel conjugates with Bionic Proteins that incorporate nsAAs. We aim to use our platform to pursue a wide range of applications and to enable the creation of new drug modalities and previously inaccessible conjugates. To achieve this, we introduce customized machinery into our Bionic SoluPro strain that empowers it to incorporate nsAAs at specified locations in proteins. We can create entirely new drug modalities and assemble previously inaccessible conjugates using straightforward chemistry in combination with the nsAA incorporation. We expect to apply this differentiated capability repeatedly across numerous programs to add substantial value to our partners discovery and development processes. Grow our platform through R&D and strategic acquisitions. We intend to continue innovating and extending avenues for creating better new biologics and cell lines at a faster pace. Near term, we are investing in research and development activities to refine our nsAA incorporation, de novo discovery, and purification technologies to enable targeted chemical modifications and conjugations in a homogenous manner. With our acquisition of Totient, and the addition of computational antibody and target discovery technology, we expect to engage with partners seeking differentiated disease-specific discovery opportunities for biologics development. We are also integrating our recently-acquired Denovium Engine deep learning artificial intelligence across our technologies, and we are driving toward a future in which the Denovium Engine understands the relevant drug and cell line determinants so comprehensively that its models can predict what we believe is the best scaffold and drug sequence as well as cell line design for any given target, without screening. This would be the realization of our vision of de novo drug creation in silico . We also intend to pursue opportunities for expanding our platform using AI as well as other technologies that we may develop or acquire. Biological validation technologies, preclinical evaluation models, and downstream protein purification technologies are all potential areas of strategic interest that could further enhance our value proposition to partners and provide us with important insights to steer our internal efforts. Create proprietary assets. We intend to selectively create our own lead drug candidates and advance them through preclinical validation. In such cases we may out-license pre-IND candidates for clinical advancement by a partner, with the expectation of a greater share in the economics relative to the milestones and royalties we may secure for our core platform technology development licenses. Leverage our platform to address market opportunities outside of biopharmaceuticals. Although we are currently focused on the biopharmaceuticals markets and we intend to maintain this focus in the near term, we believe our platform has the foundational technology and capabilities in place to capitalize on the opportunity to create proteins of value in many other industries. Such potential target applications include materials science, industrial chemicals, cosmetics, synthetic foods, and agriculture. Over the longer term, we may create new biological tools and designer enzymes that lead to applications spanning, but not limited to, bioremediation solutions, bioprocessing achievements, organic agricultural advances, and cost-effective protein-based consumables. Competition The market for technologies that enable biopharmaceutical research and development, such as ours, is global, characterized by intense competition and subject to significant intellectual property barriers. The solutions and applications offered by our competitors vary in size, breadth, and scope, and we face 24 Table of Contents competition from many different sources. Due to the significant interest and growth in biopharmaceutical research and development more broadly, we expect the intensity of this competition to increase. We do not believe there are any other commercially available solutions that enable high-throughput screening of next-generation biologic drug variants in the assembled scaffold in the production cell line. Moreover, we are not aware of technologies that allow for efficient discovery of full length next-generation protein based therapeutics. We are aware of potential competitors addressing certain steps in the target identification, biologic drug discovery, and cell line development processes or adjacent aspects of the broad process, including: in the field of novel target identification, we may face competition from academic, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology research initiatives, as well as companies focused on novel methods for target identification, including Insitro, Inc., TScan Therapeutics, Inc., and 3T Biosciences, Inc.; in the field of AI-guided drug design and discovery, we may face competition from companies designing novel proteins such as Generate Biomedicines, Inc., as well as adjacent technology companies pursuing small molecule design such as Schrodinger, Inc., Recursion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Relay Therapeutics, Inc., Atomwise Inc., Valo Health, Inc., and Exscientia Limited; in the field of scaffold design and drug platform development, we may face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing novel biologic modalities including Amgen Inc., Crescendo Biologics Limited and Harpoon Therapeutics, Inc., among others; in the field of novel human/humanized antibody discovery, we may face competition from companies such as AbCellera Biologics Inc., Adimab LLC, and Alloy Therapeutics, Inc.; in the field of non-standard amino acid protein engineering, we may face competition from companies such as Ambrx Inc. and Sutro Biopharma, Inc. (Sutro); and in the field of cell line generation and single-cell screening, we may face competition from service providers, such as Lonza Group AG and Selexis SA, companies offering instrumentation, such as Berkeley Lights Inc., and companies with alternative protein production systems, such as Sutro. In addition, we are aware of other synthetic biology companies focused on developing various custom cell lines in a variety of model organisms for biomanufacturing of molecules relevant to other industries. These companies, which include Ginkgo Bioworks, Inc., Zymergen Inc., Geltor, Inc., and Bolt Threads, Inc. may in the future pursue biopharmaceutical applications of their platforms that could compete with our technologies. Our target partners may also elect to develop their own processes on legacy systems, use in house solutions, or use traditional methods, rather than implementing our platform and may decide to stop using our platform. In addition, there are many large established players in the life science technology market that we do not currently compete with but that could develop systems, tools or other products that will compete with us in the future. These large established companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including larger research and development staff or more established marketing and sales forces. For a discussion of the risks we face relating to competition, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to our Business and StrategyThe biopharmaceutical platform technology market is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue, or sustain profitability. Intellectual Property We use a variety of intellectual property protection strategies, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other methods of protecting proprietary information. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for the components of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform; to defend and enforce our patents, to preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets; to operate without infringing valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties and to identify new opportunities for intellectual property protection. As of December 31, 2021, we own 40 issued or granted patents and 83 pending patent applications worldwide, which includes four issued U.S. patents and 36 pending U.S. patent applications. We also have granted patents in the EU, Australia, Japan, Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Israel, Mexico, and Republic of Korea. Our patents and patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire between August 2033 and 25 Table of Contents December 2042, in each case without taking into account any possible patent term adjustments or extensions and assuming payment of all appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity, or other governmental fees. Our patents and patent applications include the following: Technology Issued Patents Pending Applications Type of Protection Host strains, accessory proteins, expression vectors and other expression technology, including non-standard amino acid technology 4 U.S. 36 foreign 11 U.S. applications (3 provisional) 1 PCT Application 19 foreign applications Compositions, methods, kits Proprietary Assays and Techniques 4 U.S. applications (3 provisional) 2 PCT applications 10 foreign applications Compositions, Methods Antibodies, nucleic acids, vectors, host cells, kits, and methods of treating diseases, such as cancer and COVID 23 U.S. applications (21 provisional) 1 PCT application 13 foreign applications Compositions, methods, kits Antibody discovery computational methods 1 pending application (PCT) Methods The protection provided by a patent varies from country to country, and is dependent on the type of patent granted, the scope of the patent claims, and the legal remedies available in a given country. In addition, the term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest non-provisional filing date, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. The term of a patent in the United States can be adjusted due to any failure of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) following certain statutory and regulation deadlines for issuing a patent. In addition, in the United States, the term of a U.S. patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which, if granted, permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the original expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended and only those claims covering the approved drug, a method for using it, or a method for manufacturing it may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if we determine to develop our own product candidates and any such product candidates receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. While we may seek patent term extensions of our relevant issued patents in any jurisdiction where such extensions are available, there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and if granted, the length of such extensions. As of December 31, 2021, we owned registered trademarks for Absci, SoluPro, SoluPure in the United States, as well as eight trademark registrations in other jurisdictions. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also utilize other forms of intellectual property protection, including copyright, internal know-how and trade secrets, when such other forms are better suited to protect a particular aspect of our intellectual property position. For example, our trade secrets encompass certain algorithms associated with our deep learning Denovium Engine, our computational antibody and target discovery technology, manufacturing protocols for our E. coli SoluPro strains, libraries of protein folding solutions and design of molecular libraries for drug discovery. We believe our proprietary rights are strengthened by our comprehensive approach to intellectual property protection. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, advisors and other independent contractors to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon accepting employment, consulting or similar relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs 26 Table of Contents developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individuals relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. We also take precautions through the use of security measures to prevent the release of our proprietary information to third parties. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees, consultants, advisors and other independent contractors, these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. As a result, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. For a discussion of the risks we face relating to intellectual property, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to our Intellectual Property. Government Regulation Regulations Related to the Discovery, Development, Approval and Commercialization of Biotherapeutics Our focus is on the use of our platform to enable our partners to improve the speed and success of their biologic product discovery and development efforts. As such, while we are subject to a number of regulations, such as those governing our laboratory facilities as well as regulations that apply to businesses in the private sector generally, we are not subject to many of the types of regulations that ordinarily apply to companies in the life sciences, biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors and industries. However, we believe that the long-term success of our business depends, in part, on our partners ability to successfully develop and sell products identified and created through our platform technology. The regulations that govern our pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners are those we therefore believe have the most significant impact on our business. Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in the European Union and other countries and jurisdictions, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacturing, quality control approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of pharmaceutical products, including biological products such as those that our partners develop. The processes for obtaining marketing approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. If we or our partners fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations at any time, we or our partners may become subject to administrative or judicial sanctions or other legal consequences, including among other things, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, withdrawal of products, product recalls, fines, warning letters, untitled letters, clinical holds on clinical studies, refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, suspension or revocation of product approvals, product seizure or detention, refusal to permit the import or export of products, consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements, debarment or exclusion from federal healthcare programs, mandated modification of promotional materials, issuance of safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our partners must obtain the requisite approvals from the applicable regulatory authority prior to the commencement of clinical studies or marketing of a biological product in those countries. The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, coverage, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In the United States, biological products are subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations. The process required by the FDA before biologics may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: completion of preclinical laboratory tests and animal studies performed in accordance with the FDAs applicable good laboratory practices regulations (GLP); submission to the FDA of an application for an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; approval of the protocol and related documentation by an independent institutional review board (IRB), or ethics committee at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; 27 Table of Contents performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to the FDAs regulations commonly referred to as good clinical practices (GCPs), and any additional requirements for the protection of human research subjects and their health information, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed biological product for its intended use; preparation of and submission to the FDA of a biologics license application (BLA), for marketing approval that includes sufficient evidence of establishing the safety, purity, and potency of the proposed biological product for its intended indication, including from results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the biological product is produced to assess compliance with cGMPs, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the biological products identity, strength, quality and purity; potential FDA audit of the nonclinical study and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the BLA; review of the product candidate by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate and if applicable; payment of user fees for FDA review of the BLA (unless a fee waiver applies); and FDA review and approval of the BLA, resulting in the licensure of the biological product for commercial marketing. Although we have not historically engaged directly in the discovery of our own biologics, we anticipate that in the future, we may selectively create our own biologic product candidates and advance such candidates through preclinical validation and cGMP manufacturing scale-up. Before testing any biologic product in humans, the product candidate must undergo rigorous preclinical testing. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluations of drug chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess safety and in some cases to establish the rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to applicable federal/national, supranational, state and local level regulations and requirements, including GLP, requirements for safety/toxicology studies. The results of the preclinical studies, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND or the appropriate regulatory authority in foreign countries as part of a clinical trial application (CTA). An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational new drug to humans. In the United States, an IND must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises safety concerns or questions about the proposed clinical trial. In such a case, the IND may be placed on clinical hold and the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns or questions before the clinical trial can begin. Submission of an IND therefore may or may not result in FDA authorization to begin a clinical trial. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCPs, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical study. Clinical trials are conducted under written trial protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A separate submission to the existing IND must be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development and for subsequent protocol amendments. Furthermore, an independent IRB for each site proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and its informed consent form before the clinical trial begins at that site, and must monitor the study until completed. Regulatory authorities, the IRB or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or that the trial is unlikely to meet its stated objectives. Some studies also include oversight by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical study sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board, which provides authorization for whether or not a study may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study and may recommend halting the clinical trial if it determines that there is an unacceptable safety risk for subjects or other grounds, such as no demonstration of efficacy. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical studies and clinical study results to public registries. 28 Table of Contents For purposes of BLA approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined : Phase 1The investigational product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition. These studies are designed to test the safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism and distribution of the investigational product in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. Phase 2The investigational product is administered to a limited patient population with a specified disease or condition to evaluate the preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and dosing schedule and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive Phase 3 clinical trials. Phase 3The investigational product is administered to an expanded patient population to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy, potency, and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the investigational product and to provide an adequate basis for product approval and product labeling. In some cases, FDA may require, or firms may voluntarily pursue, post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, after initial marketing approval. These clinical trials are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication, particularly for long-term safety follow-up. During all phases of clinical development, regulatory agencies require extensive monitoring and auditing of all clinical activities, clinical data, and clinical trial investigators. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and also must develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the biological product and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP. To help reduce the risk of the introduction of adventitious agents with use of biological products, the Public Health Service Act emphasizes the importance of manufacturing control for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the sponsor must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality, potency and purity of the final biological product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the biological product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. Healthcare Laws and Regulations Biopharmaceutical companies are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which they conduct their business. These laws and regulations may constrain our relationships with our partners. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, and transparency laws and regulations related to drug pricing and payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and other healthcare providers. If our partners operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply, by extension, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, the curtailment or restructuring of operations, integrity oversight and reporting obligations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and responsible individuals may be subject to imprisonment. Additional Regulations In addition to the foregoing, state and federal U.S. laws regarding environmental protection and hazardous substances affect our business. These and other laws govern our use, handling and disposal of various biological, chemical and radioactive substances used in, and wastes generated by, our operations. If our operations result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and governmental fines. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and that continued compliance therewith will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict, however, how changes in these laws may affect our future operations. 29 Table of Contents Healthcare Reform Payors, whether domestic or foreign, or governmental or private, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs and those methods are not always specifically adapted for new technologies. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (ACA) was enacted, which, among other things, subjected biologic products to potential competition by lower-cost biosimilars; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program; extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; subjected manufacturers to new annual fees and taxes for certain branded prescription drugs; created a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% (increased to 70% pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, effective as of January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturers outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; and provided incentives to programs that increase the federal governments comparative effectiveness research. Anti-Corruption Laws We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (FCPA) the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and possibly other state and national anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities, such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the UK Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Anti-Corruption Laws). Among other matters, such Anti-Corruption Laws prohibit corporations and individuals from directly or indirectly paying, offering to pay or authorizing the payment of money or anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate, or certain other persons, in order to obtain, retain or direct business, regulatory approvals or some other advantage in an improper manner. We can also be held liable for the acts of our third party agents under the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act 2010 and possibly other Anti-Corruption Laws. In the healthcare sector, anti-corruption risk can also arise in the context of improper interactions with doctors, key opinion leaders and other healthcare professionals who work for state-affiliated hospitals, research institutions or other organizations. Our Culture We actively engage in evolving our culture every day, throughout our organization. We invite input, consider best practices, and iterate to create the Absci culture that best reflects and projects the nature of our people. The values we embody are: Believe in the impossible Proceed with passion and grit Foster collaboration and communication Expect integrity and excellence Enjoy the adventure Collectively and individually we are defying conventions and innovating without boundaries. We are disrupting the biopharmaceutical industry with bold ideas and passionate pursuit of new possibilities. We share the mission of changing the world, one protein at a time. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had 212 employees and 211 full-time employees, many of whom have advanced post-graduate degrees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our human capital resources objectives include, as applicable, identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and additional employees. The principal purposes of our equity incentive plans are to attract, retain 30 Table of Contents and motivate selected employees, consultants and directors through the granting of stock-based compensation awards and cash-based performance bonus awards. Corporate Information We were originally formed in August 2011 as an Oregon limited liability company and later converted into a Delaware limited liability company in April 2016 under the name AbSci LLC. In October 2020, we completed a reorganization whereby we were converted from a Delaware limited liability company named AbSci LLC to a Delaware corporation under the name Absci Corporation and all outstanding membership interests in AbSci LLC were exchanged for equity interests in Absci Corporation. In June 2021, we completed our acquisition of Totient, Inc., a discovery company harnessing human immune responses to identify novel antibodies and their therapeutic targets, in exchange for a combination of cash and equity consideration. Our principal executive offices are located at 18105 SE Mill Plain Boulevard, Vancouver, Washington 98683. Our telephone number is (360) 949-1041. Our website address is https://www.absci.com/. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website should not be considered to be part of this Annual Report. You are advised to read this Annual Report in conjunction with other reports and documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. In particular, please read our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K that we may file from time to time. You may obtain copies of these reports directly from us or from the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains information for electronic filers (including Absci Corporation) at its website at www.sec.gov. We make our periodic and current reports available on our internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Available information Our Annual Reports on Form 10K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q, Current Reports on Form 8K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a), and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) are filed with the SEC. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Such documents and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our investor relations website (https://investors.absci.com/) when such reports are available on the SECs website. Investors and others should note that we may announce material information to the public through filings with the SEC, on our investor relations website (https://investors.absci.com/), press releases, public conference calls, and public webcasts. We encourage our investors and others to review the information disclosed through such channels as such information could be deemed to be material information. Please note that this list may be updated from time to time. Item 1A. Risk Factors Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Risk Factors and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making investment decisions regarding our common stock. Our current business has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and predict our future performance; We have incurred significant losses since inception, we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability; 31 Table of Contents We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and improve our platform. If we are unable to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition; Our commercial success depends on the technological capabilities of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and its utilization by our existing partners and adoption by new partners; We are substantially dependent on the successful application of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to biologic drug discovery and cell line development partnerships, and we have only recently begun to enter into biologic drug discovery partnerships; Our future success is dependent on the eventual approval and commercialization of biologic drugs developed under our partnerships for which we have no control over the clinical development plan, regulatory strategy or commercialization efforts; If we cannot maintain our current relationships with partners, or if we fail to expand our relationships with our current partners or enter into new relationships, our operating results would be adversely affected as a general matter; Biologic drug development is inherently uncertain, and it is possible that our technology may not succeed in discovering appropriate molecules or producing cell lines. Even if we do succeed, it is possible that none of the drug candidates discovered using our platform, if any, that are further developed by our partners will achieve development or regulatory milestones, including marketing approval, or become viable commercial technologies, on a timely basis or at all, which would harm our ability to generate revenue; If our partners experience any of a number of possible unforeseen or negative events in connection with preclinical or clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of product candidates generated through our partnerships, this could negatively affect our revenue opportunity for that program, and/or have broader deleterious effects on our reputation and future partnership prospects; The biopharmaceutical platform technology market is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue, or achieve and sustain profitability; We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in many cases, single suppliers, for laboratory equipment and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers; Our Integrated Drug Creation Platform may not meet the expectations of our partners, which means our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer; The loss of any member of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and business development professionals could adversely affect our business; If we are unable to obtain and maintain sufficient intellectual property protection for our technologies, including our platform, Denovium Engine deep learning technology and computational antibody and target discovery technology, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technologies or a platform similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully leverage our platform technologies may be impaired; and Our share price may be volatile, and our operating results may fluctuate significantly from time to time. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information in this Annual Report and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional 32 Table of Contents risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Limited Operating History, Financial Condition and Prospects Our current business has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and predict our future performance. Our current business has a limited operating history. We began commercial operations in 2018. Before engaging in commercial operations, we focused primarily on technology development. Total revenue was $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our revenue was generated primarily from technology development activities. We are very early in the adoption phase of our business model, and, as of March 1, 2022, no partner has entered into a license for clinical or commercial use of any intellectual property rights related to biologic drug candidates or cell lines generated utilizing our platform. Moreover, we have only agreed upon clinical or commercial license terms for seven of our Active Programs in the event an option is exercised by a partner to license such intellectual property rights. We may never achieve commercial success and we have limited historical financial data upon which we may base our projected revenue. We also have limited historical financial data upon which we may base our planned operating expense or upon which you may evaluate our business and prospects. Based on our limited experience in developing and marketing new technologies, we may not be able to effectively: drive adoption of our technologies; attract and retain partners; enter into licensing arrangements with our partners following completion of our technology development activities; establish partnerships that contain economic terms sufficient to make our business model viable; achieve sufficient near term revenue or raise sufficient capital to sustain our business to enable us to receive the downstream economics of our existing or future partnerships; expand the scope of our existing partnerships; anticipate and adapt to changes in the existing and emerging markets in which we operate; focus our technology development efforts in areas that generate returns on these efforts; succeed in achieving our technology development goals; maintain and develop strategic relationships with suppliers to acquire necessary materials and equipment for the development of our technologies on appropriate timelines, or at all; implement an effective business development strategy to drive adoption of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform by new and existing partners; scale our technology development activities to meet potential demand at a reasonable cost; acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain technologies that enable us to expand our platform capabilities; avoid infringement of third-party intellectual property rights; obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms to third-party intellectual property rights, as needed for our current and planned operations; obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights that give us a competitive advantage; protect our proprietary technologies; and attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. 33 Table of Contents In addition, a substantial portion of our expenses have been and will continue to be fixed. Accordingly, if we do not generate revenue as and when anticipated, our losses may be greater than expected and our operating results will suffer. We have incurred significant losses since inception, we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we incurred net losses of $101.0 million and $14.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $191.0 million. We expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we grow our business and will also increase as a result of our being a public company. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily from private placements of our preferred equity securities, convertible promissory notes, the sale of common stock in our initial public offering (IPO) and the incurrence of other indebtedness, and to a lesser extent, revenue derived from our Integrated Drug Creation Platform. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to the development of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and commercialization of resulting technology development capabilities. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve and sustain profitability, and even if we achieve profitability, we cannot be sure that we will remain profitable for any substantial period of time. We may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability and our recent and historical growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and improve our platform. If we are unable to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition. As of December 31, 2021, we had $252.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. In July 2021, we consummated our IPO and issued 14,375,000 shares of common stock, including full exercise of the underwriters overallotment option, for net proceeds of $210.1 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering related expenses. We expect our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. If our available cash resources, including the net proceeds from our IPO, and anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including because of lower demand for the application of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to biologic drug discovery or cell line development, or the realization of other risks described in this "Risk Factors section, we will be required to raise additional capital prior to such time through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, entrance into a credit facility or another form of third party funding, or seek other sources of financing. Such additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In any event, we may consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, to pursue strategic investments, to take advantage of financing opportunities or for other reasons. For example, this may include reasons such as to: increase our business development efforts to drive market recognition of our platform and address competitive developments; fund business development efforts for our current and future programs; expand the capabilities of our platform into additional areas of biopharmaceutical research and development, such as drug target discovery; acquire, license or invest in additional technologies or complementary businesses or assets; pursue opportunities to apply our protein creation technologies beyond the biopharmaceutical industry; advancing internal assets through preclinical validation; and finance capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: our ability to achieve revenue growth; 34 Table of Contents the cost of expanding our operations, including our business development efforts; our rate of progress in selling access to our platform and business development activities associated therewith; our rate of progress in, and cost of development of new technologies; the effect of competing technological and market developments; and costs related to any domestic and international expansion. The various ways we could raise additional capital carry potential risks. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders would result. Any preferred equity securities issued also would likely provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, those debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Debt financing and preferred equity financing, if available, may also involve agreements that include covenants restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, selling or licensing our assets, making asset acquisitions, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if we require it, our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances could be significantly limited, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Substantially all of our historical revenue is related to technology development activities, and we have not demonstrated the ability to enter into a sufficient number of partnerships providing for long-term license arrangements under which we are entitled to receive milestone payments or royalties on net product sales. We have not received any such milestone or royalty revenues to date, and it may be years before we realize any such revenues, if at all. For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, substantially all of our revenue was generated by technology development fees through performing technology development activities addressing molecules in programs for our partners. To date, such fees have generally been payable upon both the inception of, and the demonstration of technical achievement of program milestones, under technology development agreements with our partners. Our business model is dependent on the successful completion of the technology development phase under these arrangements and, more importantly, on our subsequent entry into long-term license arrangements with our partners that entitle us to development, regulatory and commercial milestones and/or royalties with respect to product candidates generated through our platform, which may include product candidates discovered and/or manufactured in cell lines developed by us. We are still in the very early stages of implementing our business model and, to date, no partner has entered into a license for clinical or commercial use of any intellectual property rights related to biologic drug candidates or cell lines generated utilizing our platform. Moreover, we have only agreed upon clinical or commercial license terms for seven of our Active Programs in the event an option is exercised by a partner to license such intellectual property rights. If we are unable to maintain partnerships covering Active Programs (including if any partnership covering an Active Program is terminated during or upon completion of the technology development phase) or we are otherwise unable to enter into license agreements for our Active Programs, we will not receive any downstream payments under these programs, which will have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects. Additionally, any such license agreements that we may enter into may not be on terms that are favorable to us and may not result in meaningful revenues to us, or at all, or such license agreements may be terminated. Technology development fees are generated by technology development activities that we perform for our partners, the timing and nature of which are dictated by the timing of program commencement, which depends on various permissions, information and supplies provided by our partners and/or third party vendors as well as the pace of program progression and receipt of ongoing input from our partners. Our eligibility to receive milestone payments is generally subject to the negotiation of future arrangements, as described above. As a result, we currently do not generate significant recurring revenue and, until we are able to establish significant recurring revenue, if at all, we will be prone to regular fluctuations in our revenue dependent on the timing of our entry into partnership agreements, our partners advancing subject 35 Table of Contents programs, and our partners achieving development milestones or commercial sales with respect to drug candidates discovered and/or manufactured in cell lines developed by us. Risks Related to Our Business Model and Partnerships Our commercial success depends on the technological capabilities of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and its utilization by our existing partners and adoption by new partners. We utilize our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to identify biopharmaceutical drug candidates and associated production cell lines for further development and potential commercialization by our partners. As a result, the quality and sophistication of our platform and technology are critical to our ability to conduct our technology development activities and to deliver more promising molecules and cell lines and to accelerate and lower the costs of discovery and cell line development for our existing and potential partners, as compared to other methods. In particular, our business depends, among other things, on: our platforms ability to successfully identify appropriate molecules and production cell lines for our partners and provide them to our partners on the desired timeframes; our partners determination that the product candidates and/or production cell lines that we provide to them can ultimately be used to advance our partners clinical development programs; our partners' willingness to enter into license agreements with economic terms that are acceptable to us, which is based substantially on the value our partners believe can be recognized from the product candidates and/or production cell lines that we provide to them; our ability to execute on our strategy to enter into new partnerships with new or existing partners on technology development terms that are acceptable to us; our ability to increase awareness of the capabilities of our technologies and solutions; our partners and potential partners willingness to adopt our technologies; whether our platform reliably provides advantages over legacy and other alternative technologies and is perceived by partners to be cost effective; the rate of adoption of our technologies by pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies of all sizes, government organizations and non-profit organizations and others; prices we charge for our technology and the discoveries that we make; the relative reliability and robustness of our platform; our ability to develop new technologies for partners; our platforms ability to offer sufficient cost effectiveness, efficiency, and performance to warrant partners continued adoption of and ongoing reliance on our technologies; our platforms ability to screen a high number of cells and drug candidates; whether competitors develop a platform that enables biologic drug discovery and cell line development more effectively than our platform; our ability to bioengineer our bespoke E. coli SoluPro and Bionic SoluPro strains to produce certain types of proteins; our ability to adapt our assays to screen effectively for certain types of drug modalities or targets; our ability to adapt our assays to de-orphan antibodies we discover using technology acquired through our acquisition of Totient; our ability to construct diverse genetic libraries covering sufficient diversity of protein sequence variants and folding and expression solutions combinations; our ability to reliably adapt our assays to each program to screen large strain libraries and routinely identify molecules/strains that meet the program deliverable requirements; 36 Table of Contents our ability to optimize our fermentation conditions to scale at an effective level; our ability to use our deep learning AI to generate actionable biological insights; our platforms ability to create new drug modalities and novel conjugates; our platforms ability to incorporate non-standard amino acids into proteins with high efficiency and fidelity; the timing and scope of any approval that may be required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any other regulatory body for drugs that are developed based on molecules discovered and/or manufactured using our Integrated Drug Creation Platform technologies; our partners and the biopharmaceutical industrys continued interest and investment in next-generation biologic drug development, and the continued market growth and clinical and regulatory success of this category collectively; the impact of our investments in innovation and commercial growth; negative publicity regarding our or our competitors technologies resulting from defects or errors; and our ability to further validate and enhance our platform through research and technology development activities. There can be no assurance that we will successfully address any of these or other factors that may affect the market acceptance of our platform or our technology. If we are unsuccessful in achieving and maintaining market acceptance of our platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on the successful application of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to biologic drug discovery and cell line development partnerships, and we have only recently begun to enter into biologic drug discovery partnerships. To date, we have invested nearly all of our efforts and financial resources in technology development relating to our bespoke E. coli SoluPro and Bionic SoluPro strains. The biologic drug discovery and cell line development business is capital intensive, particularly for early stage companies that do not have significant off-setting revenues. Our success is dependent on our ability to drive adoption of our platform by partners, developing technologies for our partners, and entering into license agreements with such partners. Further, our success depends upon our expansion of our existing partnerships, and entry into new partnerships, to include our Discovery applications, as well as continuing to drive adoption of our CLD applications. Substantially all of our revenue generated to date is from technology development arrangements for our CLD applications. To date, we have very limited experience and expertise in the biologic drug discovery using our platform and have not demonstrated success in expanding our platform into biologic drug discovery. In order to realize the benefits of such an expanded scope of our Integrated Drug Creation Platform, we need to further advance our technology and further market our expanded capabilities to existing and new partners. Our future revenue growth and market potential may depend on our ability to leverage our Integrated Drug Creation Platform, together with our custom libraries and other proprietary tools, into other areas of biopharmaceutical research and development, such as biologics drug discovery. However, we may not be able to successfully validate that our Integrated Drug Creation Platform will accelerate the hit identification and lead optimization steps of biologic drug discovery or that they will allow us to discover more effective drugs. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new technology development efforts could result in a failure to develop our platform, improve upon existing technologies, develop and advance opportunities such as biologics drug discovery, and expand our addressable market, each of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business development, business, financial position and results of operations. We do not expect to generate significant recurring revenue unless and until such time as we enter into further agreements that, in the aggregate, result in regular and continuous fees for our performance of technology development activities, and, more importantly, agreements under which we would be eligible for 37 Table of Contents future payments upon our partners achievement of development and regulatory milestones or commencement of commercial sales with respect to any drug candidates generated using our platform. We are unable to predict whether and the extent to which payments will be made to us under our arrangements and whether and the extent to which we will be able to enter into future arrangements under which we are eligible to generate additional revenues, or the timing of the achievement of any milestones under these agreements, if they are achieved at all. The timing and likelihood of payments to us under these agreements is dependent on our partners successful development and commercialization of the molecules discovered using our platform, which is outside of our control. Because of these factors, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter. Our future success is dependent on the eventual approval and commercialization of biologic drugs developed under our partnerships for which we have no control over the clinical development plan, regulatory strategy or commercialization efforts. Our business model is dependent on the eventual progression of biologic drug candidates discovered or initially developed utilizing our Integrated Drug Creation Platform into clinical trials and commercialization. This requires us to attract partners and enter into agreements with them that contain obligations for the partners to pay us milestone payments as well as royalties on sales of approved products for the biologic drug candidates they develop that are generated utilizing our platform. Given the nature of our relationships with our partners, we do not control the progression, clinical development, regulatory strategy or eventual commercialization, if approved, of these product candidates. As a result, our future success and the potential to receive milestones and royalties are entirely dependent on our partners efforts, over which we have no control. If our partners determine not to proceed with the future development of a product candidate discovered or initially developed utilizing our Integrated Drug Creation Platform or if it implements a clinical or regulatory strategy that ultimately does not enable the further development, approval or commercialization of the product candidate, we will not receive the benefits of our partnerships, which may have a material and adverse effect on our operations. In addition, biologic drug development is inherently uncertain and very few product candidates ultimately progress through clinical development and receive approval for commercialization. See the risk factor section below Risks Related to Biologic Drug Development for additional information related to the risks of biologic drug development. If our partners do not receive regulatory approval for a sufficient number of product candidates originating from our partnerships, we may not be able sustain our business model. Further, we will have little control over how diversified our portfolio of potential milestone payments or royalties will end up being. While as a general matter we intend to periodically report on the status of our business development initiatives, including anticipated next steps, we may not provide forward-looking guidance on the timing of those next steps. In addition, we do not control the timing of disclosure by our partners of any milestones or other information related to any drug candidates generated using our platform. Any disclosure by us or our partners of data or other information regarding any such drug candidates that is perceived as negative may have a material adverse impact on our stock price or overall valuation. Our stock price may also decline as a result of negative clinical trial results, including adverse safety events, involving any drug candidate that is subject to one of our partnerships. If we cannot maintain our current relationships with partners, fail to expand our relationships with our current partners, or if we fail to enter into new relationships, our future operating results would be adversely affected as a general matter. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, revenue from two partners accounted for 73% and 77% of our technology development revenue, respectively. The revenue attributable to these partners may fluctuate in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our existing partners may cease to use our technologies depending on their own technological developments, availability of other competing technologies and internal decisions regarding allocation of time and resources to the discovery and development of biologic product candidates, over which we have no control. Our existing and future partners may have limited bandwidth to initiate new programs, which could limit their adoption or scale of application of our technologies. In addition, existing partners may choose to produce some or all of their requirements internally by using or developing their own manufacturing capabilities or by using capabilities from acquisitions of assets or entities from third parties with such capabilities. While our business is not substantially dependent on technology development revenues from any 38 Table of Contents individual partner, because we currently have a limited number of partnerships, a loss of one of our partners could adversely impact our revenue, results of operations, cash flows or reputation in any given period. Our future success also depends on our ability to expand relationships with our existing partners and to establish relationships with new partners. We engage in discussions with other companies and institutions regarding potential technology development and license opportunities on an ongoing basis, which can be time consuming. There is no assurance that any of these discussions will result in a technology development and/or license agreement, or if an agreement is reached, that the resulting relationship will be successful, or that the terms of such agreement will be favorable to us. In addition, our ability to monitor the achievement of clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones by our partners and enforce the payment of any corresponding fees is limited. Furthermore, the termination of any of these relationships could result in a temporary or permanent loss of revenue. Additionally, speculation in the industry about our existing or potential commercial relationships can be a catalyst for adverse speculation about us and our technology, which can adversely affect our reputation and our business. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or expand our existing partnerships or that our technologies will achieve adequate market adoption among new partners. Any failure to increase penetration in our existing markets or new markets would adversely affect our ability to improve our operating results. Our revenue under our technology development and other partner agreements for any particular period, or on an absolute basis, can be difficult to forecast. Because of the complexities and long development timelines inherent in the biologic drug development business, it is difficult to predict the timing of payments under our technology development and other partner agreements. In particular, payments under our technology development agreements are subject to the achievement of project milestones and our partners decisions to initiate or continue the technology development work, and any future downstream payments with respect to product candidates generated using our platform will be subject to our partners advancement of the product candidates, over which we have no control. As a result, our revenue for any particular period can be difficult to forecast. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or even decline on a year-over-year basis. Because of these factors, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter from our forecasts. Also, due to the limited probability of success for advancement of a clinical candidate by a partner at any given stage of development and the unpredictability of when a partner may choose to continue development of a product candidate and whether any milestone payments will be due to us, our revenue may be difficult to forecast on an absolute basis. Additionally, we recognize revenue either as we perform our technology development, upon completion of performing our technology development or upon achieving certain licensing, clinical, regulatory, and commercialization milestones. As a result, much of our revenue is generated from agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in demand for our platform, a decline in new or renewed business in any one quarter or any delays in the achievement, or any failure to achieve, development, regulatory and commercial milestones by our partners with respect to product candidates generated using our platform, may not significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter but could negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Our revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through increased operations in any period, as revenue from partners is recognized over the course of their drug development and commercialization process. We expect to make significant investments in our continued research and development of new technology development and platform expansion, which may not be successful. We are seeking to leverage our Integrated Drug Creation Platform as a consolidated technology for simultaneous biologic drug discovery and cell line development. We are seeking to expand our platform and the scope of our capabilities, which may or may not be successful. This includes, but is not limited to, drug discovery, incorporation of nsAAs, and application of artificial intelligence across our Integrated Drug Creation Platform. We expect to incur significant expenses to advance these research and development efforts or to invest in, or acquire complementary technologies, but these efforts may not be successful. For instance, we have very limited experience with the discovery of novel biologic drug candidates and incorporation of nsAAs, and we have not yet deployed these technologies in the context of partnered programs. Additional development will be required for the routine and robust use of these technologies in partnered programs. Through the course of additional technology development, significant unanticipated 39 Table of Contents challenges may arise that adversely affect our future partnership prospects. To expand the scope of our platform, we acquired Denovium, an AI company leveraging deep learning for protein discovery and engineering, in January 2021 and Totient, a computational antibody and target discovery platform company, in June 2021. We are working to integrate the Denovium Engine deep learning technology and computational antibody and target discovery technology into our Integrated Drug Creation Platform to accelerate drug discovery and cell line development efforts. Our long-term goals for this technology, such as constructing deep learning models capable of in silico target identification and drug and cell line design, will require significant investment and long development times and may ultimately never materialize. Additionally, we may make significant investments in proprietary drug candidates we seek to discover, and any discovery and subsequent development efforts for such drug candidates may not be successful. Such investments may be costly, and, given the uncertain nature of biologic drug discovery and development, our efforts in this field may not be successful. We may also make significant investments in pursuing technology development in industries other than the biopharmaceutical industry, and such pursuits may not be successful. We have no prior experience in using our technology platform in industries outside of the biopharmaceutical industry, and the economic structure of any future transactions in other industries may be less favorable to us than transactions in the biopharmaceutical industry. Developing new technologies is a speculative and risky endeavor. Technologies that initially show promise may fail to achieve the desired results or may not achieve acceptable levels of analytical accuracy or clinical utility. We may need to alter our technologies in development before we identify a potentially successful technology. Technology development is expensive, may take years to complete and can have uncertain outcomes. Failure can occur at any stage of the development. Additionally, development of any technology may be disrupted or made less viable by the development of competing technologies, and changes in the industry in which our technologies are applied could obsolete our technologies. For example, advancements in gene therapy or RNA-based vaccine technologies could significantly reduce the market share of protein-based biologics. New potential technologies may fail any stage of development or commercialization and if we determine that any of our current or future technologies are unlikely to succeed, we may abandon them without any return on our investment. If we are unsuccessful in developing or acquiring additional technologies, our potential for growth may be impaired. We must adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products and technologies to remain competitive. The industries in which we operate are characterized by significant enhancements and evolving industry standards. As a result, our partners needs are rapidly evolving. If we do not successfully innovate and invest in new technologies, including within the field of AI, our platform may become less competitive, and our partners could move to new technologies or engage in drug discovery themselves. Without the timely introduction of technological advancements, our platform technologies will likely become less competitive over time, in which case our competitive position and results of operations could suffer. Accordingly, we focus substantial resources on the development and identification of new technologies to further broaden and deepen our capabilities and expertise in AI-powered drug discovery and cell line development. To the extent we fail to timely introduce new and innovative technologies, adequately predict our partners needs or fail to obtain desired levels of market acceptance, our business may suffer and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be successful in our efforts to identify or discover internally-generated drug candidates. The development of internal assets through pre-clinical validation requires financial and human resource investments in R&D. We have not internally developed any drug candidates to date, and we may fail to identify viable drug candidates. Similarly, a key element of our business plan is to continue to expand our Integrated Drug Creation Platform through an increase in partnered programs. A failure to validate aspects of our platform by using it ourselves to discover drug candidates for internal development could limit our business prospects and business development efforts. Our efforts to develop internal assets may limit the resources available for other programs. Additionally, the development of any drug candidate we pursue may ultimately prove to be unsuccessful or less successful than another potential drug candidate that we might have chosen to pursue on a more aggressive basis or at all. 40 Table of Contents The failure of our partners to meet their contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our business. Our reliance on our partners poses a number of additional risks, including the risk that they may not perform their contractual obligations to us to our standards, in compliance with applicable legal or contractual requirements, in a timely manner or at all; they may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information; and disagreements or disputes could arise that could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of products generated using our platform or result in litigation or arbitration. In addition, certain of our partners are large, multinational organizations that run many programs concurrently, and we are dependent on their ability to accurately track and make milestone payments to us pursuant to the terms of our agreements with them. Any failure by them to inform us when milestones are reached and make related payments to us could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, some of our future partners may be located in markets subject to political and social risk, corruption and infrastructure problems, and could be subject to country-specific privacy and data security risk as well as burdensome legal and regulatory requirements. Any of these factors could adversely impact their financial condition and results of operations, which could impair their ability to meet their contractual obligations to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our partners may not achieve projected discovery and development milestones and other anticipated key events in the expected timelines or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our business and our anticipated revenue. From time to time, we may make public statements regarding the expected timing of certain milestones and key events, as well as regarding developments and milestones under our partnerships, to the extent that our partners have publicly disclosed such information or permit us to make such disclosures. Certain of our partners may in the future make statements about their goals and expectations for partnerships with us. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in our or our current and future partners drug discovery and development programs, the amount of time, effort, and resources committed by us and our current and future partners, and the numerous uncertainties inherent in the development of drugs. Additionally, to date, none of our partners has successfully completed a regulatory submission, such as an IND application or BLA, for a drug candidates generated using our platform. There can be no assurance that our partners current and future programs will advance or be completed in the time frames we or they expect. If our partners fail to achieve one or more of these milestones or other key events as planned, our business could be materially adversely affected and we may never receive the anticipated revenues from these partnerships. Our partners have significant discretion in determining when and whether to make announcements, if any, about the status of our partnerships, including about clinical developments and timelines for advancing collaborative programs, and the price of our common stock may decline as a result of announcements of unexpected or negative results or developments. Our partners have significant discretion in determining when and whether to make announcements about the status of our partnerships, including about preclinical and clinical developments and timelines for advancing product candidates generated using our platform. We do not plan to disclose the development status and progress of individual drug candidates of our partners, unless and until those partners do so first. Our partners may wish to report such information more or less frequently than we expect, or they may not report such information at all, in which case we would not report that information either. In addition, if a partner chooses to announce a partnership with us, there is no guarantee that we will receive technology development revenue in that quarter or even the following quarter, as such revenue is only payable to us in accordance with the terms of the agreements governing such partnerships. The price of our common stock may decline as a result of the public announcement of unexpected results or developments in our partnerships, or as a result of our partners withholding such information. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Biologic Drug Development Biologic drug development is inherently uncertain, and it is possible that our technology may not succeed in discovering appropriate molecules or producing cell lines. Even if we do succeed, it is possible that none of the drug candidates discovered using our platform, if any, that are further developed by our partners will achieve development or regulatory milestones, including marketing approval, or become viable commercial technologies, on a timely basis or at all, which would harm our ability to generate revenue. We use our platform to identify biologic drug candidates and develop cell lines for the production of drug candidates for partners who are engaged in biologic drug discovery and development. These partners include large pharmaceutical companies and smaller biotechnology companies, and may in the future include non-profit and government organizations. While we receive payments for performing research activities and successfully completing technical program deliverables and milestones for our partners, we anticipate that the vast majority of the economic value of the contracts that we enter into with our partners will be in the downstream payments that would be payable if certain milestones are met by our partners with respect to product candidates identified and manufactured using bespoke cell lines developed by our Integrated Drug Creation Platform and royalties on net sales if such product candidates are approved for marketing and successfully commercialized. As a result, our future growth is dependent on the ability of our partners to successfully develop and commercialize therapies based on molecules generated using our platform. Due to our reliance on our partners, the risks relating to product development, regulatory clearance, authorization or approval and commercialization apply to us indirectly through the activities of our partners. Even if our platform is capable of identifying high quality biologic drug candidates, there can be no assurance that our partners will successfully develop, secure marketing approvals for and commercialize any drug candidates based on the proteins that we discover. As a result, we may not realize the intended benefits of our partnerships. Due to the uncertain, time-consuming and costly clinical development and regulatory approval process, our partners may not successfully develop any drug candidates generated using our platform, or our partners may choose to discontinue the development of these drug candidates for a variety of reasons, including due to safety, risk versus benefit profile, exclusivity, competitive landscape, commercialization potential, production limitations or prioritization of their resources. It is possible that none of these drug candidates will ever receive regulatory approval and, even if approved, such drug candidates may never be successfully commercialized. In addition, even if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, our partners may never obtain approval or commercialize such drugs outside of the United States, which would limit their full market potential and therefore our ability to realize their potential downstream value. Furthermore, approved drugs may not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, the medical community and third-party payors, in which case revenue generated from their sales would be limited. Likewise, our partners have to make decisions about which clinical stage and pre-clinical drug candidates to develop and advance, and our partners may not have the resources to invest in all of the drug candidates generated using our platform, or clinical data and other development considerations may not support the advancement of one or more drug candidates. Decision-making about which drug candidates to prioritize involves inherent uncertainty, and our partners development program decision-making and resource prioritization decisions, which are outside of our control, may adversely affect the potential value of those partnerships. Additionally, subject to its contractual obligations to us, if one more of our partners is involved in a business combination, the partner might de-emphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate generated using our platform. If one of our strategic partners terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new partners. We are also subject to industry-wide FDA and other regulatory risk. For example, the number of BLAs approved by the FDA varies significantly over time and if changes in applicable laws, regulations, or policy or other events lead to an extended reduction in the number of BLAs approved by the FDA or otherwise reduce the number of biologics in development, our industry would contract and our business would be materially harmed. 42 Table of Contents Our partners failure to effectively develop or commercialize any drug candidates generated using our platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition to the inherent uncertainty in drug development addresses above, our ability to forecast our future revenues may be limited. In addition, we intend to advance proprietary drug candidates through preclinical validation, and may seek to license or co-develop such proprietary drug candidates with a partner for clinical development. In such case, we would also be dependent on our ability to enter into partnerships with respect to the drug candidate with license or joint development terms that are acceptable to us in a timely manner. We may also in the future invest in advancing proprietary drug candidates through some or all clinical-stage development activities and regulatory filings for approval to commercialize such proprietary drug candidates. If we were to do this, we would be subject to all of the risks of biologic drug development described in this Risk Factors section, and our failure to effectively develop or commercialize such proprietary drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If our partners experience any of a number of possible unforeseen or negative events in connection with preclinical or clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of product candidates generated through our partnerships, this could negatively affect our revenue opportunity for that program, and/or have broader deleterious effects on our reputation and future partnership prospects. Our partners may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies or clinical trials that could delay or prevent their ability to conduct further development or obtain regulatory approval or licensure of, or commercialize, biologic drug candidates generated through our partnerships, including: preclinical studies designed to enable the submission of IND applications, or other preclinical development activities, by our partners may not result in data sufficient to support the advancement of the applicable product candidates into clinical development, or our partners may abandon development activities for such product candidates prior to any IND submission for a variety of reasons; regulatory authorities or ethical review boards, including IRBs, may not authorize commencement of a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; there may be delays in reaching or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites; the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with a clinical trial design or a sponsors interpretation of data even after such regulatory authorities have reviewed and commented on the clinical trial design; differences in trial design between early stage clinical trials and later-stage clinical trials may make it difficult to extrapolate the results of earlier clinical trials to later-stage clinical trials; the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree about whether study endpoints are clinically meaningful or recommend study endpoints that require lengthy periods of observation; the number of patients, or amount of data, required to complete clinical trials may be larger than anticipated, patient enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than anticipated or patients may drop out of clinical trials at a higher rate than anticipated; contract research organizations and other contracted third parties may fail to perform their duties in accordance with the study protocol or applicable laws and regulations; changes may be made to product candidates after commencing clinical trials, which may require that previously completed stages of clinical testing be repeated or delay later stages of testing; clinical trials may fail to satisfy the applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities responsible for oversight of the conduct of clinical trials in other countries; 43 Table of Contents regulators may elect to impose a clinical hold, or our partners, governing IRBs, data safety monitoring boards or ethics committees may elect to suspend or terminate our partners clinical research or trials for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable risks to their health or the privacy of their health information being disclosed; the cost of clinical trials of the applicable product candidates, or improvements to such product candidates, may be greater than our partners anticipate, causing them to delay or terminate their clinical development efforts; the supply or quality of materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of the applicable product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; the outcome of our partners preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results; product candidates may be associated with negative or inconclusive results in clinical trials, and our partners may decide to deprioritize or abandon these product candidates, or regulatory authorities may require our partners to abandon them or may impose onerous changes or requirements, which could lead to de-prioritization or abandonment; product candidates may have undesirable side effects which could lead to serious adverse events, or other unexpected characteristics. One or more of such effects or events could cause regulators to impose a clinical hold on the applicable trial, or cause our partners or their investigators, IRBs or ethics committees to suspend or terminate the trial of the applicable product candidates; and clinical trials may suggest or demonstrate that products are not safe and effective, or as safe and effective as competing therapies on the market or in development. In addition, disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may increase the likelihood that our partners encounter such difficulties or delays in initiating, enrolling, conducting or completing their planned and ongoing clinical trials. Delays of this nature could also allow competitors to bring products to market before our partners do, potentially impairing our partners abilities to successfully commercialize products generated in partnership with us and harming our business and results of operations. Any delays in, or suspension of, the development of the product candidates developed by our partners generated using our technology may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory clearance, authorization or approval of partnered products in development. The biopharmaceutical platform technology market is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue, or achieve and sustain profitability. We face significant competition in the biopharmaceutical platform technology market. Our technologies address therapeutic discovery and bioproduction challenges that are addressed by other platform technologies controlled by companies that have a variety of business models, including the development of internal pipelines of therapeutics, technology licensing, discovery screening, cell line generation and the sale of instruments and devices. Potential competitors addressing certain steps in the target identification, biologic drug discovery and cell line development processes or adjacent aspects of these broad processes include the following: in the field of novel target identification, we may face competition from academic, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology research initiatives, as well as companies focused on novel methods for target identification, including Insitro, Inc., TScan Therapeutics, Inc. and 3T Biosciences, Inc.; in the field of AI-guided drug design and discovery, we may face competition from companies designing novel proteins such as Generate Biopharma, as well as adjacent technology companies pursuing small molecule design such as Schrodinger, Inc., Recursion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Relay Therapeutics, Inc. and Exscientia Limited; 44 Table of Contents in the field of scaffold design and drug platform development, we may face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing novel biologic modalities including Amgen Inc., Crescendo Bioscience, Inc. and Harpoon Therapeutics, Inc. among others; in the field of novel human/humanized antibody discovery, we may face competition from companies such as AbCellera Biologics Inc. and Adimab LLC; in the field of non-standard amino acid protein engineering, we may face competition from companies such as Ambrx Inc. and Sutro Biopharma, Inc. (Sutro); and in the field of cell line generation and single-cell screening, we may face competition from service providers, such as Lonza Group AG and Selexis SA, companies offering instrumentation, such as Berkeley Lights Inc., and companies with alternative protein production systems, such as Sutro. In addition, we are aware of other synthetic biology companies focused on developing various custom cell lines in a variety of model organisms for biomanufacturing of molecules relevant to other industries. These companies, which include Ginkgo Bioworks, Inc. and Zymergen Inc., may in the future pursue biopharmaceutical applications of their platforms that could compete with our technologies. Our target partners may also elect to develop their processes on in-house systems, or using other methods, rather than implementing our technologies and may decide to stop using our technologies. These companies are likely to exhaust all internal alternatives to our technology before adopting our technologies. In addition, there are many large established companies in the life science technology market that we do not currently compete with but that could develop systems, technologies, tools or other products that will compete with us in the future. These large established companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including larger research and development organizations or more established marketing and sales forces. Our competitors and potential competitors may enjoy a number of competitive advantages over us. For example these may include: longer operating histories; larger partner bases; greater brand recognition and market penetration; greater financial resources; greater technological and research and development resources; better system reliability and robustness; greater business development capabilities; and better established, larger scale and lower cost manufacturing capabilities. As a result, our competitors and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changes in partner requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their platforms or solutions than we can, or sell their platforms or solutions, or offer solutions competitive with our platform and solutions at prices designed to win significant levels of market share. In addition, we may encounter challenges in marketing our solutions with our pricing model, which is structured to capture the potential downstream revenues associated with drug candidates that were discovered using our platform. Our partners and potential partners may prefer one or more pricing models employed by our competitors that involve upfront payments rather than downstream revenues. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. In addition, competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. Certain of our competitors may be able to secure key inputs from vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to technology and platform development than we can. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, we may be unable to increase market adoption of our platform technologies for the biologic drug discovery and cell line development, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue or achieving and sustaining profitability. 45 Table of Contents The market for our platform, including potential partners and potential investors, may be skeptical of the viability and benefits of our technology platform because it is based on novel and complex synthetic biology and AI technologies. The market for our platform, including potential partners and potential investors, may be skeptical of the viability and benefits of our technology platform because it is based on novel and complex synthetic biology and AI technologies. There can be no assurance that our technologies will be understood, approved, or accepted by potential partners and potential investors or that we will be able to enter into new partnerships with new or existing partners. The synthetic biology and AI-powered drug discovery markets are relatively new, and potential partners may be hesitant to allocate resources in relatively unproven fields. If we are unable to convince these potential partners of the utility and value of our technologies or that our technologies are superior to the technologies they currently use, we will not be successful in entering these markets and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. If potential investors are skeptical of the success of our technologies, our ability to raise capital and the value of our stock may be adversely affected. The medical insurance coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics is uncertain. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for current or future products and services could limit our partners ability to successfully commercialize product candidates generated using our platform, which would decrease our ability to generate revenue. The availability and extent of reimbursement by governmental and private payors is essential for most patients to be able to afford any therapeutics generated using our platform that our partners may develop and sell. In addition, because the therapeutics we generate may represent new classes of treatments for diseases, we and our partners cannot accurately estimate how such therapeutics would be priced, whether reimbursement could be obtained or any potential revenue generated. Sales of such therapeutics will depend substantially, both domestically and internationally, on the extent to which the costs of such therapeutics are paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. If reimbursement is not available, or is available only to limited levels, our partners may not be able to successfully commercialize some therapeutics generated with our technology. Even if coverage is provided, the approved reimbursement amount may not be high enough to allow our partners to establish or maintain pricing sufficient to realize an adequate return on their investment in such therapeutics, and may lead to discontinuation or deprioritization of development, marketing and sales efforts for such products. Changes in the reimbursement landscape may occur, which are outside of our control, and may impact the commercial viability of our technology development services and/or therapeutics generated using our technology. There is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement of newly cleared, authorized or approved therapeutics in the United States and other jurisdictions. Due to the trend toward value-based pricing and coverage, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative changes, we expect our partners to experience pricing pressures on therapeutics generated using our platform that our partners may commercialize. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly novel therapeutics, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. Healthcare reform efforts aimed at lowering the price of biopharmaceutical products may impact our ability to maintain sufficient profits. Payors, whether domestic or foreign, or governmental or private, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs and those methods are not always specifically adapted for new technologies. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the ACA, was enacted, which, among other things, subjected biologic products to potential competition by lower-cost biosimilars; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program; extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled 46 Table of Contents in Medicaid managed care organizations; subjected manufacturers to new annual fees and taxes for certain branded prescription drugs; created a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% (increased to 70% pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, effective as of January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturers outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; and provided incentives to programs that increase the federal governments comparative effectiveness research. If efforts to contain the price of biopharmaceutical products are successful, the magnitude of milestone payments and royalties we would expect to receive in connection with our partners future prioritization and investment in developing novel biologics may be impacted. Our business could become subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process may be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. Our operations are currently not subject to the direct regulation by the FDA or other regulatory bodies. However, our business could in future become subject to more direct oversight by the FDA, or other domestic or international agencies. For example, we may be subject to evolving and variable regulations governing the production of genetically engineered organisms. Furthermore, while we have no active plans to operate a manufacturing facility designed to comply with cGMPs, future market pressures or the lack of available capacity at cGMP manufacturing facilities may necessitate our entry into this market. Complying with such regulations may be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Operations We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in many cases, single suppliers, for laboratory equipment and materials and may not be able to find replacements or transition to alternative suppliers on a timely basis, or at all. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, or in many cases single suppliers, to provide certain consumables and equipment that we use in our laboratory operations, as well as reagents and other laboratory materials involved in the development of our technology. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, national lockdowns and global personnel shortages as a result of stay-at-home orders, employees being impacted by COVID-19, workforce reductions and employee attrition have contributed to delays or pauses in the distribution of raw materials and finished goods, and disruptions to manufacturing and supply chains across various industries. Fluctuations in the availability and price of laboratory materials and equipment could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our technology development goals with our partners and thus our results from operations as well as future partnership opportunities. An interruption in our laboratory operations or technology transfer activities could occur if we encounter delays, quality issues or other difficulties in securing these consumables, equipment, reagents or other materials, and if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. In addition, we would likely be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to find new suppliers, acquire and qualify new equipment, validate new reagents and revalidate aspects of our existing assays, which may cause delays in our processing of samples or development and commercialization of our technology. Any such interruption could significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. In particular, we have purchased and rely on the Sartorius Ambr system. Sartorius AG (Sartorius) supplies us with the Ambr bioreactor system and related equipment and consumables, which are critical to our business. The Ambr system and its related consumables are provided solely by Sartorius. We are also materially reliant on the liquid handling robotics and associated consumables produced solely by the Hamilton Company (Hamilton). We obtain our supplies of equipment and materials from Sartorius and Hamilton under purchase orders and do not have supply contracts in place with either of these suppliers. Any disruption in the supply chain for these products would materially affect our business. While there are alternative types of equipment that we could use as a replacement for the Ambr system and/or the Hamilton workstations, switching to different systems would require significant capital investment, long lead times and significant training and validation. 47 Table of Contents Our Integrated Drug Creation Platform may not meet the expectations of our partners, which means our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Our success depends on, among other things, the markets confidence that our platform is capable of substantially shortening the amount of time necessary to perform certain activities as compared to the use of legacy and other alternative technologies, and will enable more efficient or improved pharmaceutical and biotechnology product development and/or biomanufacturing. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet our partners needs in the future, or at all. To date, we have not yet had a program enter clinical testing licensing technology from our platform or progress to manufacture in a cGMP environment, which may reduce our existing and prospective partners' confidence in our platform. We also believe that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are likely to be particularly sensitive to defects in, or suboptimal performance of, our platform, including if our platform fails to deliver meaningful acceleration of certain research timelines accompanied by results at least as good as the results generated using legacy or other alternative technologies. There can be no guarantee that our platform will meet the expectations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We will need to develop and expand our workforce, commercial infrastructure and laboratory operations to support anticipated growth in demand for our technology development programs, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this development and expansion. We will need to expand our workforce, commercial infrastructure and laboratory operations to support anticipated growth in demand for our technology development programs. If we are unable to support fluctuations in the demand for our technology development programs, including ensuring that we have adequate capacity to meet increased demand, our business could suffer. As of March 1, 2022, we had 216 full-time employees and we expect to increase the number of employees and the scope of our operations as we continue to develop our technologies. As we seek to increase the number of our partnerships, expand the scope of our existing partnerships, pursue internal programs and further develop our technological capabilities, we may need to incorporate new equipment, implement new technology systems and laboratory processes and hire new personnel with different qualifications. Failure to manage this growth or transition could result in turnaround time delays, higher technology development costs, declining technology development quality, deteriorating alliance management success, and slower responses to competitive challenges. A failure in any one of these areas could make it difficult for us to meet market expectations for our technologies, and could damage our reputation and the prospects for our business. To manage our anticipated expansion, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Also, our management team may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from its day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these business expansion activities. Due to our limited resources and early stage of growth, we may not be able to effectively manage this simultaneous execution and the expansion of our operations. This may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, operational mistakes, slower development of our technology development programs, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among our employees. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected development and expansion, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance, and our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies and compete effectively, will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our future development and expansion. Our business development organization is currently limited, and if we are unable to expand our business development organization to reach our existing and potential partners, our business may be adversely affected. We currently have a limited number of business development professionals. We will need to expand our commercial organization in order to effectively market our platform capabilities to existing and new partners. Competition for employees capable of negotiating and entering into partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel or be able to build an efficient and effective business development organization, which could negatively impact market adoption of our platform and limit our revenue growth and potential profitability. In addition, the time and cost of establishing a specialized business development or sales team for a particular 48 Table of Contents future service, technology, asset, or set of assets, may be difficult to justify in light of the revenue generated or projected. Our expected future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to successfully sell our programs and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage this potential future growth effectively, without compromising quality. The loss of any member of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and business development professionals could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team, including Sean McClain, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Weinstock, our Chief Technology Officer. The individual and collective efforts of these employees will be important as we continue to develop our platform and our technology, and as we expand our commercial activities. The loss or incapacity of existing members of our executive management team could adversely affect our operations if we experience difficulties in hiring qualified successors. While our executive officers are party to employment contracts with us, their employment with us is at-will, which means that either we or the executive may terminate their employment at any time, and we therefore cannot guarantee their retention for any period of time. Our technology development programs and laboratory operations depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel due to the intense competition for highly skilled scientists, including those focused on AI-powered biologic drug discovery and cell line development, as well as qualified business development and sales professionals, among life sciences companies. Competition for personnel with expertise in AI-powered drug discovery is particularly intense. Additionally, our geographic location in Vancouver, Washington, which does not have as high a concentration of innovative biotechnology or AI companies as other geographic locations, may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain top talent. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel. We may have difficulties locating, recruiting or retaining qualified salespeople. Recruiting and retention difficulties can limit our ability to support our research and business development programs. A key risk in the area of retention is that all of our employees are at-will. We may not realize the expected benefits of our recent acquisitions because of difficulties related to integration. In January 2021, we consummated the Denovium acquisition, and, in June 2021, we consummated the Totient acquisition. We expect that the integration processes for such acquisitions will require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage such processes successfully. If we are not able to successfully integrate Denoviums or Totients businesses with ours, the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized fully or may take longer than expected to be realized. For instance, in connection with the Denovium acquisition, we acquired a team of computational biologists and artificial intelligence experts along with a proprietary deep learning platform geared for protein discovery and engineering. There is no guarantee that the assets acquired in the Denovium transaction will continue to benefit our projects or that we will be able to achieve our ultimate goal of in silico protein and cell line design. Further, it is possible that we will experience disruption of either our ongoing business or the legacy Denovium business, including as we continue to service a limited number of Denoviums ongoing contracts for the foreseeable future. We may also incur higher than expected costs as a result of the acquisitions or experience an overall post-completion process that takes longer than originally anticipated. In addition, at times the attention of certain members of our management and resources may be focused on integration of the acquired businesses and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our ongoing business and the business of the combined company. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant, non-recurring costs in connection with the acquisitions of Denovium and Totient and integrating our operations with Denoviums and Totients, including costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. Management cannot ensure that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term or at all. Furthermore, uncertainty about the effect of the Denovium acquisition or the Totient acquisition on our business, employees, partners, and third parties with whom we have relationships may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of 49 Table of Contents operations and prospects. In addition, such challenges in integrating our acquisition of Denovium or Totient may be magnified by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Other potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include (i) the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets of Denovium and Totient in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on our employees, suppliers and other business partners; and (ii) potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including costs to integrate Denoviums and Totients businesses that may exceed the costs that we currently anticipate. Accordingly, the contemplated benefits of the Denovium acquisition or the Totient acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. We have made technology acquisitions and expect to acquire businesses or assets or make investments in other companies or technologies that could negatively affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense. We have made technology acquisitions and expect to pursue acquisitions of businesses and assets in the future. We also may pursue strategic alliances and joint ventures that leverage our technologies and industry experience to expand our offerings. Additionally, we may invest in certain wholly-owned preclinical and/or clinical development programs with the goal of licensing them to partners for clinical development. Although we have acquired other businesses or assets in the past, including our acquisitions of Denovium in January 2021 and Totient in June 2021, we may not be able to find suitable partners or acquisition or asset purchase candidates in the future, and we may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. The competition for partners or acquisition candidates may be intense, and the negotiation process will be time-consuming and complex. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business, these acquisitions may not strengthen our competitive position, the transactions may be viewed negatively by partners or investors, we may be unable to retain key employees of any acquired business, relationships with key suppliers, manufacturers or partners of any acquired business may be impaired due to changes in management and ownership, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions also could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Totient, Totients Class A common stockholders and noteholders are eligible to receive up to an additional $15 million in cash upon the achievement of certain milestones. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to fully recover the costs of any acquisition. Integration of an acquired company also may disrupt ongoing operations and require management resources that we would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance or joint venture. We also may experience losses related to investments in other companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Acquisitions may also expose us to a variety of international and business related risks, including intellectual property, regulatory laws, local laws, tax and accounting. To finance any acquisitions or asset purchase, we may choose to issue securities as consideration, which would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire companies or assets using our securities as consideration. We may be subject to laws that generally govern the biopharmaceutical industry. Biopharmaceutical companies are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which they conduct their business. These laws and regulations may constrain our relationships with our customers and partners. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, and transparency laws and regulations related to drug pricing and payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and other healthcare providers. If our partners operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, the curtailment or restructuring of operations, integrity oversight and reporting obligations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and responsible individuals may be subject to imprisonment. 50 Table of Contents Our loan and security agreement contains covenants that restrict our operating activities, and we may be required to repay the outstanding indebtedness in an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In June 2018, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (LSA), which was subsequently amended, with Bridge Bank (Lender), a di vision of Western Alliance Bank pursuant to which the Lender agreed to provide us a term loan up to $3.0 million with a maturity date in May 2022. We initially borrowed $0.3 million that was funded in June 2018. In March 2019, we entered into a first amendment to the loan and security agreement to increase total borrowings to $3.0 million. In May 2020, we entered into a second amendment to the loan and security agreement that increased total borrowings to $5.0 million and extended the maturity term date through May 2024. In June 2021, we entered into the fifth amendment, which modified the term maturity date and related amortization schedule to end in June 2023. Until we have repaid such indebtedness, the LSA subjects us to various customary covenants, including requirements as to financial reporting, liquidity ratios and insurance and restrictions on our ability to dispose of our business or property, to change our line of business, to liquidate or dissolve, to enter into any change in control transaction, to merge or consolidate with any other entity or to acquire all or substantially all the capital stock or property of another entity, to incur additional indebtedness, to incur liens on our property, to pay any dividends or make other distributions on capital stock other than dividends payable solely in capital stock, to redeem capital stock, to enter into in-bound licensing agreements, to engage in transactions with affiliates, and to encumber our intellectual property. Our business may be adversely affected by these restrictions on our ability to operate our business. Following the amendments, we were permitted to make interest only payments on the LSA through May 2021, at which time amortization began. However, we may be required to repay the outstanding indebtedness under the loan facility if an event of default occurs under the LSA. An event of default will occur if, among other things, we fail to make required payments under the LSA; we breach any of our covenants under the LSA, subject to specified cure periods with respect to certain breaches; the Lender determines that a material adverse change (as defined in the LSA) has occurred; we or our assets become subject to certain legal proceedings, such as bankruptcy proceedings; we are unable to pay our debts as they become due; or we default on contracts with third parties which would permit the third party to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness or that could have a material adverse change on us. We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings to repay such indebtedness at the time any such event of default occurs. In such a case, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our operations or grant to other parties the rights to develop and market our Integrated Drug Creation Platform that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. The Lender could also exercise its rights as secured lender to take possession of and to dispose of the collateral securing the term loan, which collateral includes substantially all of our property (excluding intellectual property, which is subject to a negative pledge). Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of any of these events. Our inability to collect on our accounts receivable by a significant number of partners may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Invoices issued to our partners are generally made on open credit terms. While we have not experienced an inability to collect on accounts receivable from our partners historically, it may occur in the future. Management assesses the need to maintain an allowance for potential credit losses each reporting period. If our partners cash flow, working capital, financial conditions or results of operations deteriorate, they may be unable or even unwilling to pay trade receivables owed to us promptly or at all. As a result, we could be exposed to a certain level of credit risk. If a major partner experiences, or a significant number of partners experience, financial difficulties, the effect on us could be material and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents If our operating facility becomes damaged or inoperable or we are required to vacate our facility, our ability to conduct and pursue our technology development efforts may be jeopardized. We currently operate primarily through a single facility located in Vancouver, Washington. Our facility and equipment could be harmed or rendered inoperable or inaccessible by natural or man-made disasters or other circumstances beyond our control, including fire, earthquake, power loss, communications failure, war or terrorism, or another catastrophic event, such as a pandemic or similar outbreak or public health crisis, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to support our partners and develop updates, upgrades and other improvements to our technology and platform, advanced automation systems, and advanced application for some period of time. We may be unable to execute on our technology development activities if our facility is inoperable or suffers a loss of utilization for even a short period of time, may result in the loss of partners or harm to our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those partners or repair our reputation in the future. Furthermore, our facility and the equipment we use to perform our technology development work could be unavailable or costly and time-consuming to repair or replace. It would be difficult, time-consuming and expensive to rebuild our facility, to locate and qualify a new facility or license or transfer our proprietary technology to a third party. Even in the event we are able to find a third party to assist in technology development efforts, we may be unable to negotiate commercially reasonable terms to engage with the third party. We depend on our information technology systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems for significant elements of our business operations, including the operation of our AI platform (Denovium Engine), our antibody discovery software platform, our computational biology system, our knowledge management system, our partner reporting, our platform, our advanced automation systems, and advanced application software. These systems involve computational resources and data storage distributed between onsite servers, cloud platforms hosted by numerous third-party providers (e.g., Amazon Web Services), and a private graphics processing unit cluster owned by us but located and maintained at a facility in Texas. We have installed, and expect to expand, a number of enterprise software systems that affect a broad range of business processes and functional areas, including for example, systems handling human resources, procurement, financial controls and reporting, contract management, regulatory compliance and other infrastructure operations. These implementations were expensive and required a significant effort in terms of both time and effort. In addition to the aforementioned business systems, we intend to extend the capabilities of both our preventative and detective security controls by augmenting the monitoring and alerting functions, the network design and the automatic countermeasure operations of our technical systems. These information technology and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including manufacturing operations, laboratory operations, data analysis, quality control, partner service and support, billing, research and development activities, scientific and general administrative activities. A significant risk in implementing these systems includes the integration and communication between separate IT systems, and any failure to integrate these systems effectively could adversely affect various aspects of our operations. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Because we currently market our technologies and our partners may market products derived from our technologies outside of the United States and we or our partners may market future technologies, products and services outside of the United States, if cleared, authorized or approved, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including an increase in our expenses and diversion of our managements attention from the development of future products and services. In addition, as a result of the Totient acquisition, we currently maintain offices and have employees located in Serbia. Our current and planned international operations could expose us to additional risks that may adversely affect our business and financial results, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as privacy security and data use regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, economic sanctions and embargoes, employment laws, anticorruption laws, regulatory requirements, reporting and disclosure obligations, reimbursement or payor regimes and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; failure by us, our partners or our distributors to obtain regulatory clearance, authorization or approval for the use of our technologies in various countries; 52 Table of Contents additional potentially relevant third-party patent rights; complexities and difficulties in obtaining intellectual property protection and enforcing our intellectual property; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes, government payors or patient self-pay systems; difficulties in negotiating favorable reimbursement negotiations with governmental authorities; complexities in technology transfer regulations and logistics related to delivery of our bioengineered E. coli to partners; logistics and regulations associated with shipping samples, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to conduct our operations locally; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand and payment for our technologies, exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and different tax jurisdictions; natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism and political unrest (particularly in light of potential escalating conflicts between Russia and Ukraine) , outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade, including as a result of tariffs, export controls and sanctions implemented by or against the United States in relation to other countries or jurisdictions, and other business restrictions; certain expenses, including expenses for travel, translation services, labor and employment costs and insurance; regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), its books and records provisions, or its anti-bribery provisions, or laws similar to the FCPA in other jurisdictions in which we may now or in the future operate, such as the United Kingdoms Bribery Act of 2010; and onerous anti-bribery requirements of several member states in the European Union (EU), such as the United Kingdoms Bribery Act of 2010, and other countries that are constantly changing and require disclosure of information to which U.S. legal privilege may not extend. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenue and results of operations. Our business activities are subject to the FCPA and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the United States and other countries in which we operate, as well as U.S. and certain foreign export controls and trade sanctions. Violations of such legal requirements could subject us to liability. We are subject to the FCPA, which among other things prohibits companies and their third-party intermediaries from offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical field are highly regulated and therefore involve interactions with public officials, including officials of non-U.S. governments. Additionally, in many other countries, hospitals are owned and operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees would be considered foreign officials under the FCPA. These laws are complex and far-reaching in nature, and, as a result, there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents or contractors will comply with such laws and regulations. Any violations of these laws, or 53 Table of Contents allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, involve significant costs and expenses, including legal fees, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We could also suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures. We use biological and hazardous materials that require considerable expertise and expense for handling, storage and disposal and may result in claims against us. We work with materials, including chemicals, biological agents and compounds that could be hazardous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous and biological waste products. Our SoluPro system is based on bioengineered E. coli, which could pose a health risk if improperly handled. Additionally, we employ various synthetic biology processes, which could involve the use or emission of harmful materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may be subject to periodic inspections by relevant authorities to ensure compliance with applicable laws. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may restrict our operations. If we do not comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to fines and penalties. In addition, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, technology development programs and business operations, as well as environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources and our operations could be suspended or otherwise adversely affected. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent. We cannot predict the impact of such changes and cannot be certain of our future compliance. Public health crises such as pandemics or similar outbreaks could cause a disruption of the development of our platform technologies, and adversely impact our business. In late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, which resulted in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, surfaced in Wuhan, China. Since then, COVID-19 has spread across the globe and to multiple regions within the United States, including Vancouver, Washington, where our primary office and laboratory space is located. The COVID-19 pandemic is continuing to evolve, and to date has led to the implementation of various responses, including government imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantines, travel restrictions, vaccination and mask mandates and other public health safety measures, as well as reported adverse impacts on healthcare resources, facilities and providers across the United States and in other countries. In addition, the spread of more contagious strains, such as the Omicron and Delta variants, could cause the COVID-19 pandemic to last longer than expected. In the event that government authorities were to further modify current restrictions, our employees conducting technology development or manufacturing activities may not be able to access our laboratory and manufacturing space, and our core activities may be significantly limited or curtailed, possibly for an extended period of time. Our business has been and may continue to be impacted negatively in a number of ways. For example, we have experienced delays in technology development activities due to supply chain interruptions related to global personnel shortages resulting in delays or pauses in the distribution of raw materials and finished goods, as well as diversion of personal protective equipment and biotechnology research and biomanufacturing supplies to healthcare organizations and COVID-19 vaccine developers. In addition, the global focus on the pandemic and uncertainties of markets has extended our business development timelines, and has negatively impacted our partners and potential partners willingness to advance negotiations in a timely manner. We have also experienced difficulties recruiting personnel, especially from outside our region, due to travel restrictions and overall uncertainties and reluctance of prospective employees to relocate during the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, or similar pandemics and outbreaks, we have experienced and may continue to experience severe delays and disruptions, including, for example: interruption of or delays in receiving products and supplies from third parties; limitations on our business operations by local, state and/or federal governments that could impact our ability to conduct our technology development and other activities; 54 Table of Contents delays in negotiations with partners and potential partners; increases in facilities costs to comply with physical distancing guidance; business disruptions caused by workplace, laboratory and office closures and an increased reliance on employees working from home, travel limitations, cyber security and data accessibility, or communication or mass transit disruptions; and limitations on employee resources that would otherwise be focused on the conduct of our activities, including because of sickness of employees or their families or the desire of employees to avoid contact with large groups of people. Any of these factors could severely impact our technology development activities, business operations and business development, or delay necessary interactions with local regulators, and other important contractors and partners. These and other factors arising from the COVID-19 pandemic could worsen in countries that are already afflicted with COVID-19, could continue to spread to additional countries, or could return to countries where the pandemic has been partially contained, and could further adversely impact our ability to conduct our business generally and have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition and results. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may negatively impact our operations and results of operations or those of our stakeholders will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the ultimate geographic spread of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, travel restrictions, additional or modified government actions, new information that will emerge concerning the severity and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the spread of new and potentially more contagious strains of COVID-19, such as the Omicron and Delta variants, and actions to contain the outbreak or treat its impact, such as social distancing, quarantines, isolation periods, lock-downs or business closures. We rely and expect in the future to rely on a limited number of outside parties to perform the cGMP manufacturing for clinical development and commercialization of any biologic product candidates produced using our technology. Limitations in this global cGMP manufacturing capacity could delay or prevent clinical development and/or commercialization efforts. We develop manufacturing processes that are required to use our cell lines, but we do not currently have capabilities to manufacture products in accordance with cGMPs. We rely on the in-house manufacturing capabilities of our partners or capabilities of established third-party contract development and manufacturing organizations (CDMOs) to manufacture biologic drug candidates generated with our technology. Manufacturing capacity maintained by our partners or third-party CDMOs is a finite resource that is in demand. Shortages in cGMP manufacturing capacity are difficult to predict and could hamper our operations and harm our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain sufficient intellectual property protection for our technologies, including our platform, Denovium Engine deep learning technology and computational antibody and target discovery technology, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technologies or a platform similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully leverage our platform technologies may be impaired. We rely on patent protection as well as trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights protection and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation costs in our attempts to recover or restrict the use of our intellectual property. To the extent our intellectual property offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid or unenforceable, we would be exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate coverage of our competitors products and services, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time-consuming and expensive. 55 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property we may own solely and jointly with others or otherwise have rights to, particularly patents, in the United States and in other countries with respect to our platform, our software and our technologies, without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We strive to protect and enhance the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking patents intended to cover our platform and related technologies and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. Our patents and patent applications in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions relate to our technology. However, obtaining and enforcing patents in our industry is costly, time-consuming and complex, and we may fail to apply for patents on important products and technologies in a timely fashion or at all, or we may fail to apply for patents in potentially relevant jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the claims of our patents (or any patent application that issues as a patent), will exclude others from making, using or selling our technology or technology that is substantially similar to ours. We also rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. In countries where we have not sought and do not seek patent protection, third parties may be able to manufacture and sell our technology without our permission, and we may not be able to stop them from doing so. We may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications, or maintain, enforce and license any patents that may issue from such patent applications, at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our technology development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. We may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the rights to patents licensed to third parties. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. As of March 1, 2022, we own 54 issued or granted patents and 109 pending patent applications worldwide, which includes five issued U.S. patents and 60 pending U.S. patent applications. It is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents in a timely fashion or at all, and even if patents are granted, they may not provide a basis for intellectual property protection of commercially viable products or services, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties. It is possible that others will design around our current or future patented technologies. As a result, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications comprising our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing technology and products similar to any of our technology. It is possible that in the future some of our patents, licensed patents and patent applications may be challenged at the USPTO or in proceedings before the patent offices of other jurisdictions. We may not be successful in defending any such challenges made against our patents or patent applications. Any successful third party challenge to our patents could result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate, patent claims being narrowed, the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology, and increased competition to our business. We may have to challenge the patents or patent applications of third parties. The outcome of patent litigation or other proceeding can be uncertain, and any attempt by us to enforce our patent rights against others or to challenge the patent rights of others may not be successful, or, if successful, may take substantial time and result in substantial cost, and may divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Any changes we make to our technology, including changes that may be required for commercialization or that cause them to have what we view as more advantageous properties may not be covered by our existing patent portfolio, and we may be required to file new applications and/or seek other forms of protection for any such alterations to our technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to secure patent protection that would adequately cover an alternative to our technology. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents has emerged to date in the United States or elsewhere. Courts frequently render opinions in the biotechnology field that may affect the patentability of certain inventions or discoveries. 56 Table of Contents Changes in patent law in the United States and other jurisdictions could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our technologies. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries or regions may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. We may not develop additional proprietary platforms, methods and technologies that are patentable. Assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent the claimed invention was entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application was entitled to the patent. On or after March 16, 2013, under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (America Invents Act) enacted in September 16, 2011, the United States transitioned to a first inventor to file system in which, assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether a third party was the first to invent the claimed invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO on or after March 16, 2013, but before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by such third party. This will require us to be cognizant of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing or until issuance, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to either (i) file any patent application related to our technology or (ii) invent any of the inventions claimed in our or our licensors patents or patent applications. The America Invents Act also includes a number of significant changes that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and also may affect patent litigation. These include allowing third party submission of prior art to the USPTO during patent prosecution and additional procedures to attack the validity of a patent by USPTO administered post-grant proceedings, including post-grant review, inter partes review and derivation proceedings. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in United States federal courts necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action. Therefore, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our owned or any future in-licensed patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our owned or any future in-licensed issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the patent position of companies in the biotechnology field is particularly uncertain. Various courts, including the United States Supreme Court have rendered decisions that affect the scope of patentability of certain inventions or discoveries relating to biotechnology. These decisions state, among other things, that a patent claim that recites an abstract idea, natural phenomenon or law of nature (for example, the relationship between particular genetic variants and cancer) are not themselves patentable. Precisely what constitutes a law of nature or abstract idea is uncertain, and it is possible that certain aspects of our technology could be considered natural laws. Accordingly, the evolving case law in the United States may adversely affect our and our licensors ability to obtain new patents or to enforce existing patents and may facilitate third party challenges to any owned or licensed patents. Issued patents covering our platform and technologies could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. Some of our patents or patent applications (including licensed patents) may be challenged at a future point in time in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference. Any successful third party challenge to our patents in this or any other proceeding could result in the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents or amendment to our patents in such a way that they no longer cover our platform and our technology, which may lead to increased competition to our business, which could harm our business. In addition, in patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on certain aspects of 57 Table of Contents our platform technologies. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, regardless of the outcome, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. We may not be aware of all third party intellectual property rights potentially relating to our platform or technology. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until approximately 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not until such patent applications issue as patents. We or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. There is also no assurance that all of the potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications or licensed patents and patent applications has been found, which could be used by a third party to challenge their validity, or prevent a patent from issuing from a pending patent application. To determine the priority of these inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings, derivation proceedings or other post-grant proceedings declared by the USPTO that could result in substantial cost to us. The outcome of such proceedings is uncertain. No assurance can be given that other patent applications will not have priority over our patent applications. In addition, changes to the patent laws of the United States allow for various post-grant opposition proceedings that have not been extensively tested, and their outcome is therefore uncertain. Furthermore, if third parties bring these proceedings against our patents, we could experience significant costs and management distraction. We may come to rely on in-licenses from third parties. If we were to lose these rights, our business could be materially adversely affected, our ability to develop improvements to our platform or technologies could be negatively and substantially impacted, and if disputes arise, we could be subjected to future litigation as well as the potential loss of or limitations on our ability to incorporate the technology covered by these license agreements. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research, development and commercialization activities. We expect that any future exclusive in-license agreements will impose various development, diligence, commercialization and other obligations on us. We may enter into engagements in the future, with other licensors under which we obtain certain intellectual property rights relating to our platform and technologies. These engagements may take the form of an exclusive license or of actual ownership of intellectual property rights or technologies from third parties. Our rights to use the technologies we license may be subject to the continuation of and compliance with the terms of those agreements. In some cases, we may not control the prosecution, maintenance or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses, or the enforcement of those patents against third parties. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to our licensing or other upstream agreements, including: the scope of rights granted under the agreements and other interpretation-related issues; the extent to which our technology development processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the sublicensing of patent and other rights under our partnership agreements; our diligence obligations under the license agreements and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; the inventorship and ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and the priority of invention of patented technology. In spite of our efforts to comply with our obligations under any future in-license agreements, our licensors might conclude that we have materially breached our obligations under our license agreements and might therefore, including in connection with any aforementioned disputes, terminate the relevant license agreement, thereby removing or limiting our ability to develop and commercialize technology covered by these license agreements. If any such in-license is terminated, or if the licensed patents fail to provide the intended exclusivity, competitors or other third parties might have the freedom to market or develop technologies similar to ours. In addition, absent the rights granted to us under such license agreements, we 58 Table of Contents may infringe the intellectual property rights that are the subject of those agreements, we may be subject to litigation by the licensor, and if such litigation by the licensor is successful we may be required to pay damages to our licensor, or we may be required to cease our technology development and commercialization activities which are deemed infringing, and in such event we may ultimately need to modify our activities or technologies to design around such infringement, which may be time- and resource-consuming, and which may not be ultimately successful. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, our rights to future components of our platform, may be licensed to us on a non-exclusive basis. The owners of these non-exclusively licensed technologies would therefore be free to license them to third parties, including our competitors, on terms that may be superior to those offered to us, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Moreover, our licensors may own or control intellectual property that has not been licensed to us and, as a result, we may be subject to claims, regardless of their merit, that we are infringing or otherwise violating the licensors rights. In addition, certain of our agreements with third parties may provide that intellectual property arising under these agreements, such as data that could be valuable to our business, will be owned by the counterparty, in which case, we may not have adequate rights to use such data or have exclusivity with respect to the use of such data, which could result in third parties, including our competitors, being able to use such data to compete with us. If we cannot acquire or license rights to use technologies on reasonable terms or if we fail to comply with our obligations under such agreements, we may not be able to commercialize new technologies or services in the future and our business could be harmed. In the future, we may identify third party intellectual property and technologies we may need to acquire or license in order to engage in our business, including to develop or commercialize new technologies or services, and the growth of our business may depend in part on our ability to acquire, in-license or use these technologies. However, we may not be able to acquire or in-license rights to these technologies on acceptable terms or at all. The licensing or acquisition of third party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources and greater technology development or commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. Even if such licenses are available, we may be required to pay the licensor in return for the use of such licensors technology, upfront or technology access fees, payments based on certain development, regulatory or commercial milestones such as sales volumes, or royalties based royalties received or milestones achieved by our partners. In addition, such licenses may be non-exclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property licensed to us. In spite of our best efforts, our licensors might conclude that we have materially breached our license agreements and might therefore terminate the license agreements, thereby removing our ability to develop and commercialize technologies covered by these license agreements. If these licenses are terminated, or if the underlying intellectual property fails to provide the intended exclusivity, competitors would have the freedom to seek regulatory approval of, and to market, technologies identical to ours. This could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, termination of these agreements or reduction or elimination of our rights under these agreements, or restrictions on our ability to freely assign or sublicense our rights under such agreements when it is in the interest of our business to do so, may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated agreements with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose our rights under these agreements, including our rights to important intellectual property or technologies or impede, or delay or prohibit the further development or commercialization of one or more technologies that rely on such agreements. While we still face all of the risks described herein with respect to those agreements, we cannot prevent third parties from also accessing those technologies. In addition, our licenses may place restrictions on our future business opportunities. In addition to the above risks, intellectual property rights that we license in the future may include sublicenses under intellectual property owned by third parties, in some cases through multiple tiers. The actions of our licensors may therefore affect our rights to use our sublicensed intellectual property, even if we are in compliance with all of the obligations under our license agreements. Should our licensors or any of the upstream licensors fail to comply with their obligations under the agreements pursuant to which they obtain 59 Table of Contents the rights that are sublicensed to us, or should such agreements be terminated or amended, our or our partners ability to further commercialize our technologies or products generated using our technologies may be materially harmed. Further, we may not have the right to control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of all of our licensed and sublicensed intellectual property, and even when we do have such rights, we may require the cooperation of our licensors and upstream licensors, which may not be forthcoming. Our business could be adversely affected if we or our licensors are unable to prosecute, maintain and enforce our licensed and sublicensed intellectual property effectively. Our licensors may have relied on third-party consultants or partners or on funds from third parties such that our licensors are not the sole and exclusive owners of the patents and patent applications we in-license. If other third parties have ownership rights to patents or patent applications we in-license, they may be able to license such patents to our competitors, and our competitors could market competing technologies and services. This could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to enter into necessary agreements on acceptable terms or at all, if any necessary licenses are subsequently terminated, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the licenses or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, or if the acquired or licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, we could encounter delays in advancing ongoing or initiating new technology development programs while we attempt to develop alternatives. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from developing technologies or advancing partnerships, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our platform, technologies, software, systems and processes in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and even where such protection is nominally available, judicial and governmental enforcement of such intellectual property rights may be lacking. Whether filed in the United States or abroad, our patent applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. Further, we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in some or all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own platform or technologies and may also sell their products or services to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These platforms and technologies may compete with ours. Our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. In addition, certain countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to other parties. Furthermore, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against other parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of any patents. In many foreign countries, patent applications and/or issued patents, or parts thereof, must be translated into the native language. If our patent applications or issued patents are translated incorrectly, they may not adequately cover our technologies; in some countries, it may not be possible to rectify an incorrect translation, which may result in patent protection that does not adequately cover our technologies in those countries. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of many other countries do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the misappropriation or other violations of our intellectual property rights including infringement of our patents in such countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent 60 Table of Contents applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, or that are initiated against us, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technologies and the enforcement of intellectual property. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations and may not adequately protect our business or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. For example: others may be able to make products that are similar to any product candidates generated by our technologies that our partners may develop but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or may license or own in the future; we, or our current or future partners, might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by the issued patents and pending patent applications that we own or may license or own in the future; we, or our current or future partners, might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our or their inventions; others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our owned or any future licensed intellectual property rights; it is possible that our pending patent applications or those that we may own in the future will not lead to issued patents; issued patents that we hold rights to may be held invalid or unenforceable, including as a result of legal challenges by our competitors; our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets; we cannot ensure that any patents issued to us or our licensors will provide a basis for an exclusive market for our commercially viable technologies or will provide us with any competitive advantages; we cannot ensure that our commercial activities or technologies will not infringe upon the patents of others; we cannot ensure that we or our partners or future licensees will be able to further commercialize our technologies on a substantial scale, if approved, before the relevant patents that we own or may license expire; we cannot ensure that any of our patents, or any of our pending patent applications, if issued, or those of our licensors, will include claims having a scope sufficient to protect our technology; we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; the patents or intellectual property rights of others may harm our business; and we may choose not to file a patent application in order to maintain certain trade secrets or know-how, and a third party may subsequently file a patent covering such intellectual property. Should any of these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 61 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our information and our trade secrets, the value of our technologies could be materially adversely affected and our business could be harmed. We rely heavily on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our unpatented know-how, technologies and other proprietary information, including parts of our technology platform, and to maintain our competitive position. However, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. In addition to pursuing patents on our technologies, we take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies by entering into agreements, including confidentiality agreements, non-disclosure agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements, with our employees, consultants, academic institutions, corporate and/or strategic partners, potential or existing investors and, when needed, our advisers. However, we cannot be certain that such agreements have been entered into with all relevant parties, and we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. For example, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure, which could adversely impact our ability to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in the market. If we are required to assert our rights against such party, it could result in significant cost and distraction. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure and detection of unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, some courts both within and outside the United States may be less willing, or unwilling, to protect trade secrets. Further, we may need to share our trade secrets and confidential know-how with current or future business partners, collaborators, contractors and others located in countries at heightened risk of theft of trade secrets, including through direct intrusion by private parties or foreign actors, and those affiliated with or controlled by state actors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our confidential proprietary information by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems, but it is possible that these security measures could be breached. If any of our confidential proprietary information were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, absent patent protection, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using that technology or information to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently discovered by a competitor or other third party, it could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties or that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. We have employed and expect to employ individuals who were previously employed at universities or other companies. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants, advisors and independent contractors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that our employees, advisors, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or other third parties, or to claims that we have improperly used or obtained such trade secrets. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights and face increased competition to our business. A loss of key research personnel work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize potential technologies and solutions, which could harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual 62 Table of Contents property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to protect and enforce our trademarks and trade names, or build name recognition in our markets of interest thereby harming our competitive position. The registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition. In addition, third parties may in the future file for registration of trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. If they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to develop brand recognition of our technologies or platform. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names. Further, we have and may in the future enter into agreements with owners of such third party trade names or trademarks to avoid potential trademark litigation which may limit our ability to use our trade names or trademarks in certain fields of business. Although we have registered Absci, SoluPure and SoluPro with the USPTO and certain other jurisdictions, we have not yet registered certain of our trademarks in all of our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business. If we apply to register these trademarks in other countries, and/or other trademarks in the United States and other countries, our applications may not be allowed for registration in a timely fashion or at all; and further, our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. In addition, opposition or cancellation proceedings may in the future be filed against our trademark applications and registrations, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. In addition, third parties may file first for our trademarks in certain countries. If they succeed in registering such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to market our technologies in those countries. If we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter more difficulty in enforcing them against third parties than we otherwise would. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. And, over the long-term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks, then our business development abilities may be materially adversely impacted. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship of our patents and other intellectual property. We or any future licensors may be subject to claims that former employees, partners or other third parties have an interest in our owned or any future in-licensed patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property as an inventor or co-inventor. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship of our or such licensors ownership of our owned or any future in-licensed patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property. If we or our future licensors fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights, such as exclusive ownership of, or right to use, intellectual property that is important to our systems. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees, and certain partners or partners may defer engaging with us until the particular dispute is resolved. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our development and commercialization efforts of our technologies. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the life sciences, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery industries, 63 Table of Contents including patent infringement lawsuits, declaratory judgment litigation and adversarial proceedings before the USPTO, including interferences, derivation proceedings, ex parte reexaminations, post-grant review and inter partes review, as well as corresponding proceedings in foreign courts and foreign patent offices. We may, in the future, become involved with litigation or actions at the USPTO or foreign patent offices with various third parties. We expect that the number of such claims may increase as our business, visibility and partnership base expand and the number of our technology development programs and resultant licensed technologies increases, and as the level of competition in our industry increases. Any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could harm our business by, among other things, resulting in time-consuming and costly litigation, diverting managements time and attention from the development of our business, requiring the payment of monetary damages (including treble damages, attorneys fees, costs and expenses) or royalty payments. It may be necessary for us to pursue litigation or adversarial proceedings before the patent office in order to enforce our patent and proprietary rights or to determine the scope, coverage and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of any such litigation might not be favorable to us, and even if we were to prevail, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. As we move into new markets and expand our technology offerings, incumbent participants in such markets may assert their patents and other proprietary rights against us as a means of slowing our entry into such markets or as a means to extract substantial license and royalty payments from us. In addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product or service revenue and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence or protection. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Given that biologic drug discovery and cell line development platform technology fields are highly competitive areas, there may be third-party intellectual property rights that others believe could relate to our technologies. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our current or future products, technologies and services may infringe. We cannot be certain that we have identified or addressed all potentially significant third-party patents in advance of an infringement claim being made against us. In addition, similar to what other companies in our industry have experienced, we expect our competitors and others may have patents or may in the future obtain patents and claim that making, having made, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our technologies infringes these patents. Defense of infringement and other claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of management and employee resources from our business. Parties making claims against us may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which could block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products or services and could result in the award of substantial damages against us, including treble damages, attorneys fees, costs and expenses if we are found to have willfully infringed. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and ongoing royalties and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or these licenses may be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. In addition, we could encounter delays in product or service introductions while we attempt to develop alternative products or services to avoid infringing third-party patents or proprietary rights. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing products or services, and the prohibition of sale of any of our technologies could materially affect our business and our ability to gain market acceptance for our technologies. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 64 Table of Contents In addition, our agreements with some of our partners, suppliers or other entities with whom we do business require us to defend or indemnify these parties to the extent they become involved in infringement claims, including the types of claims described above. We could also voluntarily agree to defend or indemnify third parties in instances where we are not obligated to do so if we determine it would be important to our business relationships. If we are required or agree to defend or indemnify third parties in connection with any infringement claims, we could incur significant costs and expenses that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various required procedures, document submissions, fee payments and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on issued United States and most foreign patents and/or applications will be due to be paid to the USPTO and various governmental patent agencies outside of the United States at several stages over the lifetime of the patents and/or applications in order to maintain such patents and patent applications. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we engage an outside service to pay such fees due to patent agencies. The USPTO and various non-U.S. governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. We employ reputable law firms and other professionals to help us comply, and in many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. In such an event, if we or any future licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering technologies our competitors may be able to enter the market with similar or identical products or technology without infringing our patents and this circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our business. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our technology for an adequate amount of time. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, if all maintenance fees are timely paid, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years from its earliest U.S. non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available, but the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Even if patents covering our platform or technologies are obtained, once the patent life has expired, we may be open to competition from others. If our platform or technologies require extended development and/or regulatory review, patents protecting our platform or technologies might expire before or shortly after we are able to successfully commercialize them. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing processes or technologies similar or identical to ours. Some of our jointly owned intellectual property has been discovered through government funded programs and thus may be subject to federal regulations such as march-in rights, certain reporting requirements and a preference for U.S.-based companies, and compliance with such regulations may limit our exclusive rights and our ability to contract with non-U.S. manufacturers. The United States federal government retains certain rights in inventions produced with its financial assistance under the Bayh-Dole Act. The federal government retains a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license for its own benefit. The Bayh-Dole Act also provides federal agencies with march-in rights. March-in rights allow the government, in specified circumstances, to require the contractor or successors in title to the patent to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license to a responsible applicant or applicants if it determines that (1) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize the invention and achieve practical application of the government-funded technology, (2) government action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs, (3) government action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations or (4) we fail to meet requirements of federal regulations. If the patent owner refuses to do so, the government may grant the license itself. Some of our jointly owned or licensed patents are subject to the provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act. If our licensors fail to 65 Table of Contents comply with the regulations of the Bayh-Dole Act, they could lose title to any patents subject to such regulations, which could affect our license rights under the patents and our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit patent protection for our technology and products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our share price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock is volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results, including fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results; the termination of partnership agreements by our partners or announcements that our partners will cease developing a product originating from our platform; the introduction of new technologies or enhancements to existing technology by us or others in our industry; our inability to establish additional partnerships or expand the scope of existing partnerships; departures of key personnel; announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; our failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public; changes in the regulatory landscape that subject us to additional regulatory and legal requirements; publication of research reports about us, our industry or our competitors, or biologic drug discovery or cell line development in particular, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; release of unfavorable publicity about us, our partners, our competitors, or the biopharmaceutical industry, including through press coverage or social media; changes in the market valuations of similar companies; overall performance of the equity markets; sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; trading volume of our common stock; disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including the Omicron and Delta variants, on our business; general political and economic conditions; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market and technology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities. This type of litigation, 66 Table of Contents if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over our financial reporting process. If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations. Prior to our IPO, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel to adequately execute our accounting processes and other supervisory resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. While we and our independent registered public accounting firm did not and were not required to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the audits of our 2019 and 2020 consolidated financial statements, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified control deficiencies in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting that constituted a material weakness. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a companys annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over our financial statement close process specifically related to an insufficient complement of accounting and finance personnel with the necessary US GAAP technical expertise to timely identify and account for complex or non-routine transactions. These control deficiencies could result in a misstatement of our accounts or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of our financial results that would not be prevented or detected, and accordingly, we determined that these control deficiencies constitute a material weakness. We are working to remediate the material weakness and are taking steps to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting through the hiring of additional finance and accounting personnel with the requisite technical knowledge and skills. With the additional personnel, we intend to take appropriate and reasonable steps to remediate this material weakness through the implementation of appropriate segregation of duties, formalization of accounting policies and controls and retention of appropriate expertise for complex accounting transactions. We will not be able to fully remediate these control deficiencies until these steps have been completed and have been operating effectively for a sufficient period of time. The hiring of additional finance and accounting personnel and the implementation of improvements to our accounting and proprietary systems and controls may be costly and time consuming. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date will be sufficient to remediate the material weakness we identified or avoid the identification of additional material weaknesses in the future. If the steps we take do not remediate the material weakness in a timely manner, there could continue to be a reasonable possibility that this material weakness or other control deficiencies could result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to remediate our material weakness, identify future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or fail to meet the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or report them within the timeframes required by law or stock exchange regulations. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. If additional material weaknesses exist or are discovered in the future, and we are unable to remediate any such material weakness, our reputation, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed. Ensuring that we have effective internal financial and accounting