Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Generally, forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include words or phrases such as believes, will, expects, anticipates, intends, and words and phrases of similar impact. The forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future operations, business strategy, business environment, key trends, and, in each case, statements related to expected financial and other benefits. Many of these factors will be important in determining our actual future results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be incorrect. They may be based on inaccurate assumptions or may not account for known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report, except as required by law. All of the forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by the risk factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to: increased competition; the performance of our strategic product, BASE24-eps; demand for our products; restrictions and other financial covenants in our credit facility; consolidations and failures in the financial services industry; customer reluctance to switch to a new vendor; our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products; the accuracy of managements backlog estimates; failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or to obtain such renewals on favorable terms; delay or cancellation of customer projects or inaccurate project completion estimates; global economic conditions impact on demand for our products and services; volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy; difficulty meeting our debt service requirements; impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets; risks from potential future litigation; future acquisitions, strategic partnerships and investments and litigation; risk of difficulties integrating Retail Decisions Europe Limited and Retail Decisions, Inc. (collectively ReD), which may cause us to fail to realize anticipated benefits of the acquisitions; the complexity of our products and services and the risk that they may contain hidden defects; risks of failing to comply with money transmitter rules and regulations; compliance of our products with applicable legislation, governmental regulations and industry standards; our compliance with privacy regulations; risks of being subject to security breaches or viruses; the protection of our intellectual property in intellectual property litigation; certain payment funding methods expose us to the credit and/or operating risk of our clients; the cyclical nature of our revenue and earnings and the accuracy of forecasts due to the concentration of revenue generating activity during the final weeks of each quarter; business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems; our offshore software development activities; risks from operating internationally; exposure to unknown tax liabilities; and volatility in our stock price. The cautionary statements in this report expressly qualify all of our forward-looking statements. The following discussion should be read together with our financial statements and related notes contained in this report and with the financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion & Analysis in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, filed February 26, 2015. Results for the three months ended March 31, 2015, are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. 22 Table of Contents Overview ACI Worldwide powers electronic payments and banking for more than 5,600 financial institutions, retailers, billers, and processors around the world. In addition, we provide bill presentment and payment collection services to billers such as tax authorities, higher education, utilities, and health care providers. Through our integrated suite of software products and hosted services, we deliver a broad range of solutions for electronic payments, transaction banking, mobile, branch and voice banking; fraud detection and trade finance. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. Our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own globally coordinated sales force and supplements its sales force with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products and services are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors, both in domestic and international markets. Accordingly, our business and operating results are influenced by trends such as information technology spending levels, the growth rate of the electronic payments industry, mandated regulatory changes, and changes in the number and type of customers in the financial services industry. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide and ACI Universal Payment Systems brands. We derive a majority of our revenues from domestic operations and believe we have large opportunities for growth in international markets as well as continued expansion domestically in the United States. Refining our global infrastructure is a critical component of driving our growth. We have launched a globalization strategy which includes elements intended to streamline our supply chain and maximize expertise in several geographic locations to support a growing international customer base and competitive needs. We utilize our Irish subsidiaries to manage certain of our intellectual property rights and to oversee and manage certain international product development and commercialization efforts. We also continue to grow centers of expertise in Timisoara, Romania and Pune and Bangalore in India as well as key operational centers such as Capetown, South Africa and in multiple locations in the United States. Key trends that currently impact our strategies and operations include: Increasing electronic payment transaction volumes . Electronic payment volumes continue to increase around the world, taking market share from traditional cash and check transactions. In September 2014, McKinsey predicted that electronic payment transactions would grow in volume at an annual rate of 8%, from 370 billion in 2013 to 550 billion in 2018, with varying growth rates based on the type of payment and part of the world. We leverage the growth in transaction volumes through the licensing of new systems to customers whose older systems cannot handle increased volume and through the licensing of capacity upgrades to existing customers. Adoption of real-time payments . Customer expectations, from both consumers and corporate, are driving the payments world to more real-time delivery. In the UK, payments sent through the traditional ACH multi-day batch service can now be sent through the Faster Payments service giving almost immediate access to the funds and this is being considered in several countries including Australia and the US. Corporate customers expect real-time information on the status of their payments instead of waiting for an end of day report. And regulators expect banks to be monitoring key measures like liquidity in real time. ACIs focus has always been on the real-time execution of transactions and delivery of information through real-time tools such as dashboards so our experience will be valuable in addressing this trend. Increasing competition. The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Our competition comes from in-house information technology departments, third-party electronic payment processors and third-party software companies located both within and outside of the United States. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, third-party processors tend to provide competition to our solutions, particularly among customers that do not seek to differentiate their electronic payment offerings or are eliminating banks from the payments service reducing the need for our solutions. As consolidation in the financial services industry continues, we anticipate that competition for those customers will intensify. Adoption of cloud technology . In an effort to leverage lower-cost computing technologies some financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors are seeking to transition their systems to make use of cloud technology. Our market sizing exercises have indicated that cloud based payment services will grow at a faster rate than on premise payment software. Our investment in ACI On Demand provides us the grounding to deliver cloud capabilities in the future. 23 Table of Contents Electronic payments fraud and compliance . As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, criminal elements continue to find ways to commit a growing volume of fraudulent transactions using a wide range of techniques. Financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors continue to seek ways to leverage new technologies to identify and prevent fraudulent transactions and other attacks such as denial of service attacks. Due to concerns with international terrorism and money laundering, financial institutions in particular are being faced with increasing scrutiny and regulatory pressures. We continue to see opportunity to offer our fraud detection solutions to help customers manage the growing levels of electronic payment fraud and compliance activity. Adoption of smartcard technology . In many markets, card issuers are being required to issue new cards with embedded chip technology, with the liability shift going into effect in 2015 in the United States. Chip-based cards are more secure, harder to copy and offer the opportunity for multiple functions on one card (e.g. debit, credit, electronic purse, identification, health records, etc.). The EMV standard for issuing and processing debit and credit card transactions has emerged as the global standard, with many regions throughout the world working on EMV rollouts. The primary benefit of EMV deployment is a reduction in card present payment fraud, with the additional benefit that the core infrastructure necessary for multi-function chip cards is being put in place (e.g., chip card readers in ATMs and POS devices) allowing the deployment of other technologies like contactless. EMV would not prevent the data breaches which have occurred at major retailers in the past 36 months, however EMV makes the cards more difficult to use at the physical point of sale. Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). The SEPA, primarily focused on the European Economic Community and the United Kingdom, is designed to facilitate lower costs for cross-border payments and reduce timeframes for settling electronic payment transactions. Recent moves to set an end date for the transition to SEPA payment mechanisms will drive more volume to these systems with the potential to cause banks to review the capabilities of the systems supporting these payments. Our retail and wholesale banking solutions facilitate key functions that help financial institutions address these mandated regulations. Financial institution consolidation . Consolidation continues on a national and international basis, as financial institutions seek to add market share and increase overall efficiency. Such consolidations have increased, and may continue to increase, in their number, size and market impact as a result of recent economic conditions affecting the banking and financial industries. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions may result in a smaller number of existing and potential customers for our products and services. Consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity decides to forego future use of our products, our revenue would decline. Conversely, we could benefit from the combination of a non-customer and a customer when the combined entity continues use of our products and, as a larger combined entity, increases its demand for our products and services. We tend to focus on larger financial institutions as customers, often resulting in our solutions being the solutions that survive in the consolidated entity. Global vendor sourcing . Global and regional financial institutions, processors and retailers are aiming to reduce the costs in supplier management by picking suppliers who can service them across all their geographies instead of allowing each country operation to choose suppliers independently. Our global footprint from both customer and a delivery perspective enable us to be successful in this global sourced market. However, projects in these environments tend to be more complex and therefore of higher risk. Electronic payments convergence . As electronic payment volumes grow and pressures to lower overall cost per transaction increase, financial institutions are seeking methods to consolidate their payment processing across the enterprise. We believe that the strategy of using service-oriented-architectures to allow for re-use of common electronic payment functions such as authentication, authorization, routing and settlement will become more common. Using these techniques, financial institutions will be able to reduce costs, increase overall service levels, enable one-to-one marketing in multiple bank channels, leverage volumes for improved pricing and liquidity, and manage enterprise risk. Our product strategy is, in part, focused on this trend, by creating integrated payment functions that can be re-used by multiple bank channels, across both the consumer and wholesale bank. While this trend presents an opportunity for us, it may also expand the competition from third-party electronic payment technology and service providers specializing in other forms of electronic payments. Many of these providers are larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Mobile banking and payments . There is a growing demand for the ability to carry out banking services or make payments using a mobile phone. Recent Accenture statistics show that 40% of people in the United States have used their phone to make a payment. Our customers have been making use of existing products to deploy mobile banking, mobile payment and mobile commerce and mobile payment solutions for their customers in many countries. In addition, ACI has invested in mobile products of our own and via partnerships to support mobile functionality in the marketplace. 24 Table of Contents The banking, financial services and payments industries have come under increased scrutiny from federal, state and foreign lawmakers and regulators in response to the crises in the financial markets and the global recession. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which was signed into law July 21, 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry and requires the implementation of many new regulations that will have a direct impact on our customers and potential customers. This is not limited to the United States, in April 2014, the European Commission voted to adopt a number of amendments with regards to the Payment Services Directive, placing further pressure on industry incumbents. These regulatory changes may create both opportunities and challenges for us. The application of the new regulations on our customers could create an opportunity for us to market our product capabilities and the flexibility of our solutions to assist our customers in addressing these regulations. At the same time, these regulatory changes may have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial results as we adjust our activities in light of increased compliance costs and customer requirements. It is currently too difficult to predict the long term extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, Payment Services Directive or the resulting regulations will impact our business and the businesses of our current and potential customers. Several other factors related to our business may have a significant impact on our operating results from year to year. For example, the accounting rules governing the timing of revenue recognition in the software industry are complex and it can be difficult to estimate when we will recognize revenue generated by a given transaction. Factors such as maturity of the software product licensed, payment terms, creditworthiness of the customer, and timing of delivery or acceptance of our products often cause revenues related to sales generated in one period to be deferred and recognized in later periods. For arrangements in which services revenue is deferred, related direct and incremental costs may also be deferred. Additionally, while the majority of our contracts are denominated in the United States dollar, a substantial portion of our sales are made, and some of our expenses are incurred, in the local currency of countries other than the United States. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in a given period may result in the recognition of gains or losses for that period. We continue to seek ways to grow through organic sources, partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We continually look for potential acquisitions designed to improve our solutions breadth or provide access to new markets. As part of our acquisition strategy, we seek acquisition candidates that are strategic, capable of being integrated into our operating environment, and financially accretive to our financial performance. Restructuring During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we reduced our headcount as a part of our integration of our recent acquisitions. In connection with these actions, approximately $1.3 million of termination costs were recognized in general and administrative expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2015. The charges for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $0.7 million in the Americas segment and $0.6 million in the EMEA segment. Backlog Included in backlog estimates are all software license fees, maintenance fees and services fees specified in executed contracts, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals to the extent that we believe recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. We have historically included assumed renewals in backlog estimates based upon automatic renewal provisions in the executed contract and our historic experience with customer renewal rates. Our 60-month backlog estimate represents expected revenues from existing customers using the following key assumptions: Maintenance fees are assumed to exist for the duration of the license term for those contracts in which the committed maintenance term is less than the committed license term. License, facilities management, and software hosting arrangements are assumed to renew at the end of their committed term at a rate consistent with our historical experiences. Non-recurring license arrangements are assumed to renew as recurring revenue streams. Foreign currency exchange rates are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period for those contracts stated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our pricing policies and practices are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period. In computing our 60-month backlog estimate, the following items are specifically not taken into account: Anticipated increases in transaction, account, or processing volumes in customer systems. Optional annual uplifts or inflationary increases in recurring fees. Services engagements, other than facilities management and software hosting engagements, are not assumed to renew over the 60-month backlog period. The potential impact of merger activity within our markets and/or customers. 25 Table of Contents We review our customer renewal experience on an annual basis. The impact of this review and subsequent update may result in a revision to the renewal assumptions used in computing the 60-month and 12-month backlog estimates. In the event a revision to renewal assumptions is determined to be necessary, prior periods will be adjusted for comparability purposes. The following table sets forth our 60-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Americas $ 3,042 $ 3,014 EMEA 805 855 Asia/Pacific 290 291 Total $ 4,137 $ 4,160 March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Committed $ 1,710 $ 1,731 Renewal 2,427 2,429 Total $ 4,137 $ 4,160 Included in our 60-month backlog estimates are amounts expected to be recognized during the initial license term of customer contracts (Committed Backlog) and amounts expected to be recognized from assumed renewals of existing customer contracts (Renewal Backlog). Amounts expected to be recognized from assumed contract renewals are based on our historical renewal experience. We also estimate 12-month backlog, segregated between monthly recurring and non-recurring revenues, using a methodology consistent with the 60-month backlog estimate. Monthly recurring revenues include all monthly license fees, maintenance fees and processing services fees. Non-recurring revenues include other software license fees and services fees. Amounts included in our 12-month backlog estimate assume renewal of one-time license fees on a monthly fee basis if such renewal is expected to occur in the next 12 months. The following table sets forth our 12-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 (in millions). For all periods reported, approximately 80% of our 12-month backlog estimate is committed backlog and approximately 20% of our 12-month backlog estimate is renewal backlog. Dollar amounts reflect currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Monthly Recurring Non- Recurring Total Monthly Recurring Non- Recurring Total Americas $ 590 $ 51 $ 641 $ 589 $ 59 $ 648 EMEA 139 43 182 146 45 191 Asia/Pacific 54 12 66 54 10 64 Total $ 783 $ 106 $ 889 $ 789 $ 114 $ 903 Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions as described above. These assumptions may turn out to be inaccurate or wrong, including for reasons outside of managements control. For example, our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in the customers industry or geographic location, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts which may cause the actual renewal rates and amounts to differ from historical experiences. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog estimates will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within the corresponding 12-month or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not required to be subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a GAAP financial measure. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the condensed consolidated statements of operations as well as the percentage relationship to total revenues of items included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations (amounts in thousands): Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2015 Compared to the Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2014 Revenues 2015 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue $ Change vs 2014 % Change vs 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue Revenues: Initial license fees (ILFs) $ 20,333 9 % $ 8,710 75 % $ 11,623 5 % Monthly license fees (MLFs) 19,244 8 % (4,835 ) -20 % 24,079 11 % License 39,577 17 % 3,875 11 % 35,702 16 % Maintenance 59,492 26 % (3,007 ) -5 % 62,499 28 % Services 23,497 10 % 909 4 % 22,588 10 % Hosting 110,251 47 % 9,567 10 % 100,684 45 % Total revenues $ 232,817 100 % $ 11,344 5 % $ 221,473 100 % Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015, increased $11.3 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2014. The increase is the result of a $3.9 million, or 11%, increase in license revenue, a $9.6 million, or 10%, increase in hosting revenue and a $0.9 million, or 4%, increase in services revenue partially offset by a $3.0 million, or 5%, decrease in maintenance revenue. The overall increase was reduced by $5.9 million due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. The increase in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 was due to a $9.0 million, or 6%, increase in the Americas reportable segment, a $1.9 million, or 4%, increase in the EMEA reportable segment and a $0.4 million, or 2%, increase in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment. The addition of ReD contributed $10.3 million of the increase in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. Excluding the impact of the addition of ReD, total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015, increased $1.0 million. License Revenue Customers purchase the right to license ACI software for the term of their agreement which term is generally 60 months. Within these agreements are specified capacity limits typically based on customer transaction volume. ACI employs measurement tools that monitor the number of transactions processed by customers and if contractually specified limits are exceeded, additional fees are charged for the overage. Capacity overages may occur at varying times throughout the term of the agreement depending on the product, the size of the customer, and the significance of customer transaction volume growth. Depending on specific circumstances, multiple overages or no overages may occur during the term of the agreement. Initial License Revenue Initial license revenue includes license and capacity revenues that do not recur on a monthly or quarterly basis. Included in initial license revenue are license and capacity fees that are recognizable at the inception of the agreement and license and capacity fees that are recognizable at interim points during the term of the agreement, including those that are recognizable annually due to negotiated customer payment terms. Initial license revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, increased by $8.7 million, or 75%. Initial license revenue increased in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific reportable segments by $6.1 million, $1.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The increase in initial license revenue is largely attributable to the execution of several license renewal arrangements and the release of deferred revenue for several large, complex projects during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014. Included in the above are capacity related revenue increases of $0.6 million, $1.5 million and $0.9 million in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific reportable segments, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014. 27 Table of Contents Monthly License Revenue Monthly license revenue is license and capacity revenue that is paid monthly or quarterly due to negotiated customer payment terms as well as initial license and capacity fees that are recognized as revenue ratably over an extended period as monthly license revenue. Monthly license revenue decreased $4.8 million, or 20%, during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 with the Americas, EMEA, and Asia/Pacific reportable segments decreasing by $2.1 million, $1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively. The decrease in monthly license revenue is primarily due to a decrease in the amount of initial license revenue that was being recognized ratably over an extended period during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014. Monthly license revenue was also impacted by the recognition of cumulative monthly license fee revenue related to large, complex projects that were completed and recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2014, that did not reoccur in the same period in 2015. Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue includes standard and premium maintenance or any post contract support fees received from customers for the provision of product support services. Maintenance revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 decreased $3.0 million, or 5%, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Maintenance revenue decreased in the EMEA reportable segment by $3.6 million partially offset by the increase in Americas and Asia/Pacific reportable segments of $0.1 million and $0.5 million, respectively. The decrease in the EMEA reportable segment was a result of deferred revenue related to large, complex projects that were released during the three months ended March 31, 2014, that did not reoccur in the same period in 2015. This was partially offset by increases in maintenance revenue for the Americas and Asia/Pacific reportable segments primarily driven by increases in our customer installation base, expanded product usage from existing customers, and increased adoption of our premium support services programs. Services Revenue Services revenue includes fees earned through implementation services, professional services and facilities management services. Implementation services include product installations, product configurations, and custom software modifications (CSMs). Professional services include business consultancy, technical consultancy, on-site support services, CSMs, product education, and testing services. These services include new customer implementations as well as existing customer migrations to new products or new releases of existing products. During the period in which non-essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and incremental costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. During the period in which essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and indirect costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. Services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 increased by $0.9 million, or 4%. Implementation and professional services increased in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific reportable segments by $0.3 million each. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company recognized $3.5 million of services revenue related to large, complex projects. These revenues were previously deferred as all revenue recognition criteria had not been met. Excluding the impact of the revenue recognized from these projects, services revenue decreased $2.6 million, or 1%. The Companys customers continue to transition from on premise to hosted software solutions. Services work performed in relation to the Companys hosted software solutions is recognized over a longer service period and is classified as hosting revenue. Hosting Revenue Hosting revenue includes fees earned through hosting and on-demand arrangements. All revenue from hosting and on-demand arrangements that does not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting, which include set-up fees, implementation or customization services, and product support services, are included in hosting revenue. Hosting revenue also includes fees paid by our clients as a part of the acquired EBPP products and Payments Risk Management products. Fees may be paid by our clients or directly by their customers and may be a percentage of the underlying transaction amount, a fixed fee per executed transaction or a monthly fee for each customer enrolled. Hosting revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 increased $9.6 million, or 10%. The increase was primarily due to additional ReD revenues of $9.2 million. 28 Table of Contents Operating Expenses 2015 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue $ Change vs 2014 % Change vs 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue Operating expenses: Cost of license $ 6,109 3 % $ 373 7 % $ 5,736 3 % Cost of maintenance, services and hosting 113,013 49 % 5,126 5 % 107,887 49 % Research and development 37,091 16 % (365 ) -1 % 37,456 17 % Selling and marketing 28,911 12 % 1,002 4 % 27,909 13 % General and administrative 21,575 9 % (3,541 ) -14 % 25,116 11 % Depreciation and amortization 19,693 8 % 2,615 15 % 17,078 8 % Total operating expenses $ 226,392 97 % $ 5,210 2 % $ 221,182 100 % Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $5.2 million, or 2%, as compared to the same period of 2014, primarily due to $12.0 million of incremental operating expenses and integration costs related to the added operations of ReD and a $3.0 million increase in interchange processing fees. These increases were partially offset by a $2.8 million decrease in significant transaction related expenses and $6.4 million due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Cost of License The cost of license for our products sold includes third-party software royalties as well as the amortization of purchased and developed software for resale. In general, the cost of license for our products is minimal because we internally develop most of the software components, the cost of which is reflected in research and development expense as it is incurred as technological feasibility coincides with general availability of the software components. Cost of license increased $0.4 million, or 7%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to an increase in amortization expense for acquired software. Cost of Maintenance, Services and Hosting Cost of maintenance, services and hosting includes costs to provide hosting services and both the costs of maintaining our software products as well as the service costs required to deliver, install and support software at customer sites. Maintenance costs include the efforts associated with providing the customer with upgrades, 24-hour help desk, post go-live (remote) support and production-type support for software that was previously installed at a customer location. Service costs include human resource costs and other incidental costs such as travel and training required for both pre go-live and post go-live support. Such efforts include project management, delivery, product customization and implementation, installation support, consulting, configuration, and on-site support. Hosting costs related to the acquired EBPP products include payment card interchange fees, assessments payable to banks and payment card processing fees. Cost of maintenance, services, and hosting increased $5.1 million, or 5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to $6.0 million of incremental operating expenses related to the added operations of ReD, partially offset by $2.0 million of lower expense due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding these items, maintenance, services and hosting expenses increased $1.1 million, primarily due to a $3.0 million increase in interchange processing fees, partially offset by a decrease in personnel and related expenses. Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses are primarily human resource costs related to the creation of new products, improvements made to existing products as well as compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. Research and development expense decreased $0.4 million, or 1%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to a decrease in personnel and related expenses. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing includes both the costs related to selling our products to current and prospective customers as well as the costs related to promoting us, our products and our research efforts required to measure customers future needs and satisfaction levels. Selling costs are primarily the human resource and travel costs related to the effort expended to license our products and services to current and potential clients within defined territories and/or industries as well as the management of the overall relationship with customer accounts. Selling costs also include the costs associated with assisting distributors in their efforts to sell our products and services in their respective local markets. Marketing costs include costs needed to promote us and our products as well as perform or acquire market research to help us better understand what products our customers are looking for in the future. Marketing costs also include the costs associated with measuring customers opinions toward us, our products and personnel. 29 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expense increased $1.0 million, or 4%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to an increase in personnel and related expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are primarily human resource costs including executive salaries and benefits, personnel administration costs, and the costs of corporate support functions such as legal, administrative, human resources and finance and accounting. General and administrative expense decreased $3.5 million, or 14%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Included in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were approximately $0.6 million of incremental expenses related to the added operations of ReD. Those additional expenses were offset by a $3.2 million decrease in significant transaction related expenses incurred in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of 2014, as well as a $1.1 million decrease in general and administrative expenses due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.6 million, or 15%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to incremental expenses related to the added operations of ReD. Other Income and Expense 2015 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue $ Change vs 2014 % Change vs 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue Other income (expense): Interest expense $ (10,941 ) -5 % $ (1,766 ) 19 % $ (9,175 ) -4 % Interest income 102 0 % (97 ) -49 % 199 0 % Other, net 3,722 2 % 4,779 -452 % (1,057 ) 0 % Total other income (expense) $ (7,117 ) -3 % $ 2,916 -29 % $ (10,033 ) -5 % Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $1.8 million, or 19%, as compared to the same period in 2014 due to the increase in debt obtained in the third quarter of 2014 used to fund the acquisition of ReD. Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2015 decreased by $0.1 to the same period in 2014. Other, net consists of foreign currency losses and other non-operating items. Foreign currency gains (losses) for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were $3.7 million and ($0.9) million, respectively. Income Taxes 2015 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue $ Change vs 2014 % Change vs 2014 Amount % of Total Revenue Income tax benefit $ (530 ) 0 % $ 3,437 -87 % $ (3,967 ) -2 % Effective income tax rate 77 % 41 % The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was a benefit of 76.6%. The earnings of our foreign entities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $7.7 million. The tax rates in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are less than the domestic tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was negatively impacted by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, partially offset by profits in other foreign jurisdictions taxed at lower rates and domestic losses taxed at a higher rate. 30 Table of Contents The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was a benefit of 40.7%. The earnings of our foreign entities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 were $5.6 million. The tax rates in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are less than the domestic tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was negatively impacted by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, partially offset by profits in other foreign jurisdictions taxed at lower rates and domestic losses taxed at a higher rate. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be negatively affected to the extent earnings are lower in the countries in which we operate that have a lower statutory rate or higher in the countries in which we operate that have a higher statutory rate or the extent we have losses sustained in countries where the future utilization of losses are uncertain. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are occasionally subject to examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in the jurisdictions we operate. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Segment Results The following table presents revenues and income (loss) before income taxes for the periods indicated by geographic region (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Revenues: Americas $ 163,750 $ 154,769 EMEA 49,384 47,461 Asia/Pacific 19,683 19,243 $ 232,817 $ 221,473 Loss before income taxes: Americas $ 16,109 $ 16,281 EMEA 20,701 17,510 Asia/Pacific 10,257 5,579 Corporate (47,759 ) (49,112 ) $ (692 ) $ (9,742 ) Reportable segment results are impacted by both direct expenses and allocated shared function costs such as global product development, global customer operations and global product management. Shared function costs are allocated to the geographic reportable segments as a percentage of revenue or as a percentage of headcount. All administrative costs that are not directly attributable or able to be allocated to a geographic segment are included in the corporate line item. The increase in revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015 is primarily due to the incremental revenue from ReD operations. The Company incurred significant transaction related expenses of approximately $2.9 million and $5.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amortization of acquisition software and intangible assets allocated to the Corporate business segment was approximately $12.2 million and $8.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Interest expense on long term debt allocated to the Corporate segment was approximately $11.0 million and $9.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs are: (i) to fund normal operating expenses; (ii) to meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, our cash and cash equivalents and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 31 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2015, we had $68.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. As of March 31, 2015, $50.0 million of the $68.5 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. The following table sets forth summary cash flow data for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (amounts in thousands) Net cash provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 49,167 $ 15,257 Investing activities (14,497 ) (7,808 ) Financing activities (37,637 ) (44,310 ) Net cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 amounted to $49.2 million as compared to $15.3 million during the same period in 2014. The comparative period increase was primarily due to a smaller loss and higher receivable collections during the first three months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily for funding capital expenditures, lease payments, stock repurchases and acquisitions. During the first three months of 2015, we used cash of $12.5 million to purchase software, property and equipment as compared to $7.8 million during the same period in 2014. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we repaid a net $22.0 million on the revolver portion of the Credit Facility and we repaid $19.9 million of the term portion of the Credit Facility. In addition, during the first three months of 2015, we received proceeds of $11.1 million, including corresponding excess tax benefits, from the exercises of stock options and the issuance of common stock under our 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and used $4.0 million for the repurchase of restricted stock and performance shares for tax withholdings. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, we used $70.0 million to repurchase common stock. We received net proceeds of $32.0 million from the Revolving Credit Facility and we repaid $8.9 million of the Term Credit Facility during the three months ended March 31, 2014. In addition, during the first three months of 2014, we received proceeds of $7.6 million, including corresponding excess tax benefits, from the exercises of stock options and the issuance of common stock under our 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and used $4.5 million for the repurchase of restricted stock and performance shares for tax withholdings. We may decide to use cash to acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities, will satisfy our projected liquidity requirements, which primarily consists of working capital requirements, for the next twelve months and foreseeable future. Debt As of March 31, 2015, we had $22.0 million and $528.1 million outstanding under our Revolving and Term Credit Facilities, with up to $228.0 million of unused borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, as amended. The amount of unused borrowings actually available varies in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants relating to maximum permitted leverage ratio and the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The facility does not contain any subjective acceleration features and does not have any required payment or principal reduction schedule and is included as a long-term liability in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. At March 31, 2015 (and at all times during this period) we were in compliance with our debt covenants. The interest rate in effect at March 31, 2015 was 2.68%. 32 Table of Contents On August 20, 2013, the Company completed a $300.0 million offering of 6.375% Senior Notes due in 2020 (the Notes) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount in a private placement for resale to qualified institutional buyers. The Notes bear an interest rate of 6.375% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on August 15 and February 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2014. Interest will accrue from August 20, 2013. The Notes will mature on August 15, 2020. Stock Repurchase Program As of December 31, 2011, our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase program authorizing us, from time to time as market and business conditions warrant, to acquire up to $210 million of its common stock. In February 2012, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $52.1 million to their current stock repurchase authorization, bringing the total authorization to $262.1 million. On September 13, 2012, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 7,500,000 shares of the Companys common stock, or up to $113.0 million in place of the remaining repurchase amounts previously authorized. In July 2013, the Board of Directors approved an additional $100 million for the stock repurchase program. In February 2014, they again approved an additional $100 million for the stock repurchase program. We did not repurchase any shares under the program during the three months ended March 31, 2015. Under the program to date, we have purchased 37,108,467 shares for approximately $395.8 million. The maximum remaining authorized for purchase under the stock repurchase program was approximately $138.3 million as of March 31, 2015. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased by us. Repurchased shares are returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In March 2005, our Board of Directors approved a plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of shares of common stock under the existing stock repurchase program. Under our Rule 10b5-1 plan, we have delegated authority over the timing and amount of repurchases to an independent broker who does not have access to inside information about the Company. Rule 10b5-1 allows us, through the independent broker, to purchase shares at times when we ordinarily would not be in the market because of self-imposed trading blackout periods, such as the time immediately preceding the end of the fiscal quarter through a period three business days following our quarterly earnings release. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments For the three months ended March 31, 2015, other than as discussed below, there have been no material changes to the contractual obligations and commercial commitments disclosed in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Payments due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Contractual Obligations Revolver portion of Credit Facility 22,000 22,000 Revolver portion of Credit Facility interest (1) 2,014 590 1,179 245 Total $ 24,014 $ 590 $ 1,179 $ 22,245 $ (1) Based upon the Credit Facility debt outstanding and interest rate in effect at March 31, 2015 of 2.68%. We are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Tax . The liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 31, 2015 is $14.9 million. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be proper and reasonable under the circumstances. We continually evaluate the appropriateness of estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 33 Table of Contents The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Business Combinations Intangible Assets and Goodwill Stock-Based Compensation Accounting for Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2015, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, filed on February 26, 2015, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.