Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Generally, forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include words or phrases such as believes, will, expects, anticipates, intends, and words and phrases of similar impact. The forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future operations, business strategy, business environment, key trends, and, in each case, statements related to expected financial and other benefits. Many of these factors will be important in determining our actual future results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be incorrect. They may be based on inaccurate assumptions or may not account for known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report, except as required by law. All of the forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by the risk factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to: increased competition; the performance of our strategic product, BASE24-eps; demand for our products; restrictions and other financial covenants in our credit facility; consolidations and failures in the financial services industry; customer reluctance to switch to a new vendor; our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products; the accuracy of managements backlog estimates; failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or to obtain such renewals on favorable terms; delay or cancellation of customer projects or inaccurate project completion estimates; global economic conditions impact on demand for our products and services; volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy; difficulty meeting our debt service requirements; impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets; risks from potential future litigation; future acquisitions, strategic partnerships and investments and litigation; risk of difficulties integrating Online Resources Corporations (ORCC) businesses may cause us to fail to realize anticipated benefits of the acquisition; the complexity of our products and services and the risk that they may contain hidden defects; compliance of our products with applicable legislation, governmental regulations and industry standards; our compliance with privacy regulations; risks of being subject to security breaches or viruses; the protection of our intellectual property in intellectual property litigation; the cyclical nature of our revenue and earnings and the accuracy of forecasts due to the concentration of revenue generating activity during the final weeks of each quarter; and business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems; our offshore software development activities; risks from operating internationally; exposure to unknown tax liabilities; and volatility in our stock price. The cautionary statements in this report expressly qualify all of our forward-looking statements. The following discussion should be read together with our financial statements and related notes contained in this report and with the financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion & Analysis in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, filed March 1, 2013. Results for the three months ended March 31, 2013, are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. 25 Table of Contents Overview ACI Worldwide powers electronic payments and banking for nearly 1,650 financial institutions, retailers and processors around the world. Through our integrated suite of software products and hosted services, we deliver a broad range of solutions for electronic payments, transaction banking, mobile, branch and voice banking; fraud detection and trade finance. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. Our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own globally coordinated sales force and supplements its sales force with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products and services are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors, both in domestic and international markets. Accordingly, our business and operating results are influenced by trends such as information technology spending levels, the growth rate of the electronic payments industry, mandated regulatory changes, and changes in the number and type of customers in the financial services industry. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide and ACI Payment Systems brands. We derive a majority of our revenues from non-domestic operations and believe we have large opportunities for growth in international markets as well as continued expansion domestically in the United States. Refining our global infrastructure is a critical component of driving our growth. We have launched a globalization strategy which includes elements intended to streamline our supply chain and maximize expertise in several geographic locations to support a growing international customer base and competitive needs. We utilize our Irish subsidiaries to manage certain of our intellectual property rights and to oversee and manage certain international product development and commercialization efforts. We also continue to grow centers of expertise in Timisoara, Romania and Pune and Bangalore in India as well as key operational centers such as Capetown, South Africa and in multiple locations in the United States. Key trends that currently impact our strategies and operations include: Global financial markets uncertainty . The continuing uncertainty in the global financial markets has negatively impacted general business conditions. It is possible that a weakening economy could adversely affect our customers, their purchasing plans, or even their solvency, but we cannot predict whether or to what extent this will occur. We have diversified counterparties and customers, but we continue to monitor our counterparty and customer risks closely. While the effects of the economic conditions in the future are not predictable, we believe our global presence, the breadth and diversity of our service offerings and our enhanced expense management capabilities position us well in a slower economic climate. Market analysts, such as Boston Consulting Group, indicate that banks now recognize the importance of payments to their business, so providing services for that aspect of the business is of less risk than for other aspects of their business. Increasing electronic payment transaction volumes . Electronic payment volumes continue to increase around the world, taking market share from traditional cash and check transactions. In February 2011 Boston Consulting Group predicted that noncash payment transactions would grow in volume at an annual rate of 9% from $309 billion in 2010 to $740 billion in 2020, with varying growth rates based on the type of payment and part of the world. We leverage the growth in transaction volumes through the licensing of new systems to customers whose older systems cannot handle increased volume and through the licensing of capacity upgrades to existing customers. Adoption of real-time delivery . Customer expectations, from both consumers and corporate, are driving the payments world to more real-time delivery. In the UK, payments sent through the traditional ACH multi day batch service can now be sent through the Faster Payments service giving almost immediate access to the funds and this is being considered in several countries including Singapore and the US. Corporate customers expect real-time information on the status of their payments instead of waiting for an end of day report. And regulators expect banks to be monitoring key measures like liquidity in real time. ACIs focus has always been on the real-time execution of transactions and delivery of information through real-time tools such as dashboards so our experience will be valuable in addressing this trend. 26 Table of Contents Increasing competition. The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Our competition comes from in-house information technology departments, third-party electronic payment processors and third-party software companies located both within and outside of the United States. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, third-party processors tend to provide competition to our solutions, particularly among customers that do not seek to differentiate their electronic payment offerings or are eliminating banks from the payments service reducing the need for our solutions. As consolidation in the financial services industry continues, we anticipate that competition for those customers will intensify. Adoption of cloud technology . In an effort to leverage lower-cost computing technologies some financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors are seeking to transition their systems to make use of cloud technology. Currently this is impacting areas such as customer relationship management systems rather than payment services. Our investment in ACI On Demand provides us the grounding to deliver cloud capabilities in the future. Electronic payments fraud and compliance . As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, criminal elements continue to find ways to commit a growing volume of fraudulent transactions using a wide range of techniques. Financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors continue to seek ways to leverage new technologies to identify and prevent fraudulent transactions and other attacks such as denial of service attacks. Due to concerns with international terrorism and money laundering, financial institutions in particular are being faced with increasing scrutiny and regulatory pressures. We continue to see opportunity to offer our fraud detection solutions to help customers manage the growing levels of electronic payment fraud and compliance activity. Adoption of smartcard technology . In many markets, card issuers are being required to issue new cards with embedded chip technology, most recently in the United States. Chip-based cards are more secure, harder to copy and offer the opportunity for multiple functions on one card (e.g. debit, credit, electronic purse, identification, health records, etc.). The EMV standard for issuing and processing debit and credit card transactions has emerged as the global standard, with many regions throughout the world working on EMV rollouts. The primary benefit of EMV deployment is a reduction in electronic payment fraud, with the additional benefit that the core infrastructure necessary for multi-function chip cards is being put in place (e.g., chip card readers in ATMs and POS devices) allowing the deployment of other technologies. We are working with many customers around the world to facilitate EMV deployments, leveraging several of our solutions. Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). The SEPA, primarily focused on the European Economic Community and the United Kingdom, is designed to facilitate lower costs for cross-border payments and reduce timeframes for settling electronic payment transactions. Recent moves to set an end date for the transition to SEPA payment mechanisms will drive more volume to these systems with the potential to cause banks to review the capabilities of the systems supporting these payments. Our retail and wholesale banking solutions facilitate key functions that help financial institutions address these mandated regulations. Financial institution consolidation . Consolidation continues on a national and international basis, as financial institutions seek to add market share and increase overall efficiency. Such consolidations have increased, and may continue to increase, in their number, size and market impact as a result of the global economic crisis and the financial crisis affecting the banking and financial industries. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions may result in a smaller number of existing and potential customers for our products and services. Consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity decides to forego future use of our products, our revenue would decline. Conversely, we could benefit from the combination of a non-customer and a customer when the combined entity continues use of our products and, as a larger combined entity, increases its demand for our products and services. We tend to focus on larger financial institutions as customers, often resulting in our solutions being the solutions that survive in the consolidated entity. Global vendor sourcing . Global and regional financial institutions, processors and retailers are aiming to reduce the costs in supplier management by picking suppliers who can service them across all their geographies instead of allowing each country operation to choose suppliers independently. Our global footprint from both customer and a delivery perspective enable us to be successful in this global sourced market. However, projects in these environments tend to be more complex and therefore of higher risk. 27 Table of Contents Electronic payments convergence . As electronic payment volumes grow and pressures to lower overall cost per transaction increase, financial institutions are seeking methods to consolidate their payment processing across the enterprise. We believe that the strategy of using service-oriented-architectures to allow for re-use of common electronic payment functions such as authentication, authorization, routing and settlement will become more common. Using these techniques, financial institutions will be able to reduce costs, increase overall service levels, enable one-to-one marketing in multiple bank channels, leverage volumes for improved pricing and liquidity, and manage enterprise risk. Our product strategy is, in part, focused on this trend, by creating integrated payment functions that can be re-used by multiple bank channels, across both the consumer and wholesale bank. While this trend presents an opportunity for us, it may also expand the competition from third-party electronic payment technology and service providers specializing in other forms of electronic payments. Many of these providers are larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Mobile banking and payments . There is a growing demand for the ability to carry out banking services or make payments using a mobile phone. Our customers have been making use of existing products to deploy mobile banking, mobile payment and mobile commerce and mobile payment solutions for their customers in many countries. In addition, ACI has invested in mobile products of our own and via partnerships to support mobile functionality in the marketplace. Availability of credit . There have been significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets and many lenders and financial institutions reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. The availability of credit, confidence in the entire financial sector, and volatility in financial markets have been adversely affected. These disruptions are likely to have some impact on all institutions in the U.S. banking and financial industries, including our lenders and the lenders of our customers. The Federal Reserve Bank has been providing vast amounts of liquidity into the banking system to compensate for weaknesses in short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets. A reduction in the Federal Reserves activities or capacity could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs or reducing the availability of funds to finance our existing operations as well as those of our customers. We are not currently dependent upon short-term funding, and the limited availability of credit in the market has not affected our revolving credit facility or our liquidity or materially impacted our funding costs. The banking, financial services and payments industries have come under increased scrutiny from federal, state and foreign lawmakers and regulators in response to the crises in the financial markets and the global recession. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which was signed into law July 21, 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry and requires the implementation of many new regulations that will have a direct impact on our customers and potential customers. These regulatory changes may create both opportunities and challenges for us. The application of the new regulations on our customers could create an opportunity for us to market our product capabilities and the flexibility of our solutions to assist our customers in addressing these regulations. At the same time, these regulatory changes may have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial results as we adjust our activities in light of increased compliance costs and customer requirements. It is currently too difficult to predict the long term extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact our business and the businesses of our current and potential customers. Several other factors related to our business may have a significant impact on our operating results from year to year. For example, the accounting rules governing the timing of revenue recognition in the software industry are complex and it can be difficult to estimate when we will recognize revenue generated by a given transaction. Factors such as maturity of the software product licensed, payment terms, creditworthiness of the customer, and timing of delivery or acceptance of our products often cause revenues related to sales generated in one period to be deferred and recognized in later periods. For arrangements in which services revenue is deferred, related direct and incremental costs may also be deferred. Additionally, while the majority of our contracts are denominated in the United States dollar, a substantial portion of our sales are made, and some of our expenses are incurred, in the local currency of countries other than the United States. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in a given period may result in the recognition of gains or losses for that period. We continue to seek ways to grow through organic sources, partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We continually look for potential acquisitions designed to improve our solutions breadth or provide access to new markets. As part of our acquisition strategy, we seek acquisition candidates that are strategic, capable of being integrated into our operating environment, and financially accretive to our financial performance. 28 Table of Contents Acquisitions Online Resources Corporation On March 11, 2013, we completed the exchange offer for Online Resources Corporation (ORCC) and all its subsidiaries. The Company paid cash of $3.85 per share of common stock for approximately $132.9 million and $127.2 million for the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for a total purchase price of $260.1 million (the Merger). As a leading provider of online banking and full service bill pay solutions, the acquisition of ORCC adds Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment (EBPP) solutions as a strategic part of ACIs Universal Payments portfolio. It also strengthens the Companys online banking capabilities with complementary technology, and expands the Companys leadership in serving community banking and credit union customers. Each outstanding option to acquire ORCC common stock was canceled and terminated at the effective time of the Merger and converted into the right to receive an equivalent number of options to purchase ACI common stock. Each ORCC restricted stock unit was vested immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger and received $3.85 per share. We used $260.1 million of the $300 million of senior bank financing arranged through Wells Fargo Securities, LLC to fund the acquisition. See Note 3, Debt , for terms of the financing arrangement. Profesionales en Transacciones Electronicas S.A. During the first quarter of 2013, the Company acquired 100% of Profesionales en Transacciones Electronicas S.A. Venezuela (PTESA-V), 100% of Profesionales en Transacciones Electronicas S.A. Ecuador (PTESA-E), and the ACI related assets of Profesionales en Transacciones Electronicas S.A. Colombia (PTESA-C), collectively PTESA. The common stock of PTESA-E and PTESA-V were acquired for $2.8 million and the assets of PTESA-C were acquired for $11.4 million, for a total aggretate purchase price of $14.2 million. PTESA has been a long-term partner of the Company, serving customers in South America in sales, service and support functions. The addition of the PTESA team to the Company reinforces its commitment to serve the Latin American market. The aggregate purchase price of PTESA of $14.2 million was paid in cash. The consideration paid by the Company to complete the acquisition has been preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition, including $6.4 million of goodwill and $8.5 million of customer relationships with a weighted-average useful life of 14-15 years. Restructuring During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we reduced our headcount as a part of our integration of our recent acquisitions. In connection with these actions, during the three months ended March 31, 2013, approximately $1.6 million of termination costs were recognized in general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The liability is expected to be paid over the next 12 months. Backlog Included in backlog estimates are all software license fees, maintenance fees and services fees specified in executed contracts, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals to the extent that we believe recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. We have historically included assumed renewals in backlog estimates based upon automatic renewal provisions in the executed contract and our historic experience with customer renewal rates. Our 60-month backlog estimate represents expected revenues from existing customers using the following key assumptions: Maintenance fees are assumed to exist for the duration of the license term for those contracts in which the committed maintenance term is less than the committed license term. License and facilities management arrangements are assumed to renew at the end of their committed term at a rate consistent with our historical experiences. Non-recurring license arrangements are assumed to renew as recurring revenue streams. Foreign currency exchange rates are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period for those contracts stated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our pricing policies and practices are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period. 29 Table of Contents In computing our 60-month backlog estimate, the following items are specifically not taken into account: Anticipated increases in transaction volumes in customer systems. Optional annual uplifts or inflationary increases in recurring fees. Services engagements, other than facilities management, are not assumed to renew over the 60-month backlog period. The potential impact of merger activity within our markets and/or customers. We review our customer renewal experience on an annual basis. The impact of this review and subsequent update may result in a revision to the renewal assumptions used in computing the 60-month and 12-month backlog estimates. In the event a revision to renewal assumptions is determined to be necessary, prior periods will be adjusted for comparability purposes. The following table sets forth our 60-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 (in millions). The March 31, 2013 60-month backlog estimate includes approximately $660 million as a result of the acquisition of ORCC. Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Americas $ 2,090 $ 1,429 EMEA 691 719 Asia/Pacific 275 268 Total $ 3,056 $ 2,416 Included in our 60-month backlog estimates are amounts expected to be recognized during the initial license term of customer contracts (Committed Backlog) and amounts expected to be recognized from assumed renewals of existing customer contracts (Renewal Backlog). Amounts expected to be recognized from assumed contract renewals are based on our historical renewal experience. The following table sets forth our 60-month Committed Backlog and Renewal Backlog estimates as of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Committed $ 1,478 $ 1,324 Renewal 1,578 1,092 Total $ 3,056 $ 2,416 We also estimate 12-month backlog, segregated between monthly recurring and non-recurring revenues, using a methodology consistent with the 60-month backlog estimate. Monthly recurring revenues include all monthly license fees, maintenance fees and processing services fees. Non-recurring revenues include other software license fees and services fees. Amounts included in our 12-month backlog estimate assume renewal of one-time license fees on a monthly fee basis if such renewal is expected to occur in the next 12 months. The following table sets forth our 12-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 (in millions). The March 31, 2013 12-month backlog estimate includes approximately $138 million as a result of the acquisition of ORCC. For all periods reported, approximately 90% of our 12-month backlog estimate is Committed Backlog and approximately 10% of our 12-month backlog estimate is Renewal Backlog. Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Monthly Recurring Non- Recurring Total Monthly Recurring Non- Recurring Total Americas $ 422 $ 70 $ 492 $ 277 $ 69 $ 346 EMEA 136 40 176 143 37 180 Asia/Pacific 54 21 75 53 17 70 Total $ 612 $ 131 $ 743 $ 473 $ 123 $ 596 30 Table of Contents Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions as described above. These assumptions may turn out to be inaccurate or wrong, including for reasons outside of managements control. For example, our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in the customers industry or geographic location, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts which may cause the actual renewal rates and amounts to differ from historical experiences. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog estimates will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within the corresponding 12-month or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not required to be subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a GAAP financial measure. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the condensed consolidated statements of operations as well as the percentage relationship to total revenues of items included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations (amounts in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Amount % of Total Revenue Amount % of Total Revenue Revenues: Initial license fees (ILFs) $ 17,384 10.7 % $ 25,400 18.5 % Monthly license fees (MLFs) 23,972 14.8 % 25,510 18.5 % Software license fees 41,356 25.5 % 50,910 37.0 % Maintenance fees 58,634 36.2 % 43,735 31.8 % Services 23,929 14.8 % 22,852 16.6 % Software hosting fees 38,078 23.5 % 20,128 14.6 % Total revenues 161,997 100.0 % 137,625 100.0 % Expenses: Cost of software licenses fees 5,918 3.7 % 4,932 3.6 % Cost of maintenance, services, and hosting fees 61,871 38.2 % 40,891 29.7 % Research and development 37,149 22.9 % 30,933 22.5 % Selling and marketing 25,074 15.5 % 20,698 15.0 % General and administrative 25,037 15.5 % 34,362 25.0 % Depreciation and amortization 10,957 6.8 % 7,422 5.4 % Total expenses 166,006 102.5 % 139,238 101.2 % Operating loss (4,009 ) -2.5 % (1,613 ) -1.2 % Other income (expense): Interest income 131 0.1 % 249 0.2 % Interest expense (3,897 ) -2.4 % (1,891 ) -1.4 % Other, net 3,165 2.0 % 878 0.6 % Total other income (expense) (601 ) -0.4 % (764 ) -0.6 % Loss before income taxes (4,610 ) -2.8 % (2,377 ) -1.7 % Income tax benefit (2,444 ) -1.5 % (555 ) -0.4 % Net loss $ (2,166 ) -1.3 % $ (1,822 ) -1.3 % Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2013 Compared to Three-Month Period March 31, 2012 Revenues Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased $24.4 million, or 17.7%, as compared to the same period in 2012 of which $8.8 million, or 6.4%, was due to the addition of ORCC. S1 Corporation (S1) was acquired on February 13, 2012, accordingly, total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 only included S1 revenues from February 13, 2012 through March 31, 2012 versus a full quarter in 2013. Total revenues increased as a result of a $14.9 million, or 34.1%, increase in maintenance fee revenue, a $1.1 million, or 4.7%, increase in services revenues, and $18.0 million, or 89.2%, increase in software hosting fees revenue partially offset by a $9.6 million, or 18.8%, decrease in software license fee revenues. The increase in total revenues was driven by increases in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific reportable operating segments of $20.1 million, $2.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Revenue from the addition of ORCC is included in the Americas reportable operating segment. 31 Table of Contents Software License Fees Revenue Customers purchase the right to license ACI software for the term of their agreement which is generally 60 months. Within these agreements are specified capacity limits typically based on customer transaction volumes. ACI employs measurement tools that monitor the number of transactions processed by customers and if contractually specified limits are exceeded, additional fees are charged for the overage. Capacity overages may occur at varying times throughout the term of the agreement depending on the product, the size of the customer, and the significance of customer transaction volume growth. Depending on specific circumstances, multiple overages or no overages may occur during the term of the agreement. Certain of our initial license fees are required to be recognized ratably over an extended period. Initial license and capacity fees that are recognized as revenue ratably over an extended period are included in our monthly license fee revenues. Initial License Fees (ILF) Revenue ILF revenue includes license and capacity revenues that do not recur on a monthly or quarterly basis. Included in ILF revenues are license and capacity fees that are recognizable at the inception of the agreement and license and capacity fees that are recognizable at interim points during the term of the agreement, including those that are recognizable annually due to negotiated customer payment terms. ILF revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, decreased by $8.0 million, or 31.6%. The decrease in ILF revenues is primarily due to a reduction in revenue recognized from customer go-live and capacity events as compared to the year ago quarter. ILF revenue decreased in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific operating segments by $2.0 million, $4.4 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Capacity-related revenues decreased $5.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012 primarily in the EMEA operating segment. Monthly License Fees (MLF) Revenue MLF revenues are license and capacity revenues that are paid monthly or quarterly due to negotiated customer payment terms as well as initial license and capacity fees that are recognized as revenue ratably over an extended period as MLF revenue. MLF revenues decreased $1.5 million, or 6.0%, during the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in 2012. The Americas operating segment decreased by $0.7 million and the EMEA and Asia/Pacific operating segments both decreased by $0.4 million when compared to the same period in 2012. Maintenance Fees Revenue Maintenance fee revenue includes standard and enhanced maintenance or any post-contract support fees received from customers for the provision of product support services. Maintenance fee revenues increased $14.9 million, or 34.1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in 2012 of which $0.1 million is due to the addition of ORCC. Maintenance fee revenue increased in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific operating segments by $5.9 million, $6.1 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Maintenance fee revenue increased partly due to the addition of S1 occurring in the three months ended March 31, 2012. Services Revenue Services revenue includes fees earned through implementation services, professional services and facilities management services. Implementation services include product installations, product configurations, and retrofit custom software modifications (CSMs). Professional services include business consultancy, technical consultancy, on-site support services, CSMs, product education, and testing services. These services include new customer implementations as well as existing customer migrations to new products or new releases of existing products. During the period in which non-essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and incremental costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. During the period in which essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and indirect costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. Services revenue increased $1.1 million, or 4.7%, for the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in 2012 of which $0.1 million is due to the addition of ORCC. Services revenue increased in the Americas and Asia/Pacific operating segments by $0.8 and $0.6 million, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in the EMEA operating segment of $0.3 million. Services revenue increased partly due to the addition of S1 occurring in the three months ended March 31, 2012. Software Hosting Fees Revenue Software hosting fee revenue includes fees earned through hosting and on-demand arrangements. All revenues from hosting and on-demand arrangements, which may include set-up fees, implementation or customization services, and product support services, are included in software hosting fee revenue. 32 Table of Contents Software hosting fees revenue increased $18.0 million, or 89.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to same period in 2012 of which $8.6 million is due to the addition of ORCC which is included in the Americas operating segment. Software hosting fee revenue increased in the Americas and EMEA segments by $16.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively, and can be attributed to new customers adopting our on-demand or hosted offerings and existing customers adding new functionality or services. Software hosting fees revenue increased partly due to the addition of S1 occurring in the three months ended March 31. 2012. Expenses Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased $26.8 million, or 19.2%, as compared to the same period of 2012. Included in operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were approximately $8.1 million of operating expenses from the addition of ORCC. There were approximately $6.6 million and $15.0 million of acquisition related one-time expenses incurred in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively. One-time expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 included $1.9 million of personnel related charges and $4.7 million of professional and other expenses related to the acquisition of ORCC. Excluding these expenses, total operating expenses increased $27.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of S1 operations for the full quarter. Cost of Software License Fees The cost of software licenses for our products sold includes third-party software royalties as well as the amortization of purchased and developed software for resale. In general, the cost of software licenses for our products is minimal because we internally develop most of the software components, the cost of which is reflected in research and development expense as it is incurred as technological feasibility coincides with general availability of the software components. Cost of software licenses fees increased $1.0 million, or 20.0% in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, primarily from the amortization on S1 acquired software for the full quarter. Cost of Maintenance, Services, and Hosting fees Cost of maintenance, services and hosting fees includes costs to provide hosting services and both the costs of maintaining our software products as well as the service costs required to deliver, install and support software at customer sites. Maintenance costs include the efforts associated with providing the customer with upgrades, 24-hour help desk, post go-live (remote) support and production-type support for software that was previously installed at a customer location. Service costs include human resource costs and other incidental costs such as travel and training required for both pre go-live and post go-live support. Such efforts include project management, delivery, product customization and implementation, installation support, consulting, configuration, and on-site support. Cost of maintenance, services, and hosting fees increased $21.0 million, or 51.3%, in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. There were $5.8 million of ORCC expenses added in the quarter ended March 31, 2013. Excluding these expenses, the cost of maintenance, services and hosting fees increased $15.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of S1 operations for the full quarter. Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses are primarily human resource costs related to the creation of new products, improvements made to existing products as well as compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. Research and development expense increased $6.2 million, or 20.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. There were $0.7 million of ORCC expenses added in the quarter ended March 31, 2013. Excluding these expenses, total research and development expenses increased $5.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of S1 operations for the full quarter. 33 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing includes both the costs related to selling our products to current and prospective customers as well as the costs related to promoting the Company, its products and the research efforts required to measure customers future needs and satisfaction levels. Selling costs are primarily the human resource and travel costs related to the effort expended to license our products and services to current and potential customers within defined territories and/or industries as well as the management of the overall relationship with customer accounts. Selling costs also include the costs associated with assisting distributors in their efforts to sell our products and services in their respective local markets. Marketing costs include costs needed to promote the Company and its products as well as perform or acquire market research to help us better understand what products our customers are looking for in the future. Marketing costs also include the costs associated with measuring customers opinions toward the Company, our products and personnel. Selling and marketing expense increased $4.4 million, or 21.1%, in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. There were $0.5 million of ORCC expenses added in the quarter ended March 31, 2013. Excluding these expenses, total operating expenses increased $3.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of S1 operations for the full quarter. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are primarily human resource costs including executive salaries and benefits, personnel administration costs, and the costs of corporate support functions such as legal, administrative, human resources and finance and accounting. General and administrative expense decreased $9.3 million, or 27.1%, in the three months ended March 31, 2013. Included in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were approximately $0.2 million of operating expenses related to the addition of ORCC. There were approximately $6.6 million and $15.0 million of acquisition related one-time expenses incurred in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively. One-time expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 included $1.9 million of personnel related charged and $4.7 million of professional and other expenses related to the acquisition of ORCC. Excluding these expenses, total general and administrative expenses decreased $1.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period due to lower personnel related expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes charges for depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of acquired intangibles excluding amortization of purchased or developed technology for resale. Amortization of acquired intangibles include customer relationships, trade names, non-competes and other intangible assets. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $3.5 million, or 47.6%, in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to acquisition related intangibles. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense includes interest income and expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and other non-operating items. Fluctuating currency rates impacted the three months ended March 31, 2013 by $3.5 million in net foreign currency gains, as compared with $0.6 million in net losses during the same period in 2012. Interest expense increased $2.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 due primarily to the increased debt used to partially fund the S1 acquisition in February 2012 and the ORCC acquisition in March 2013. Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was a benefit of 53.0%. The earnings of our foreign entities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $8.9 million. The tax rates in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are less than the domestic tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was positively impacted by foreign profits taxed at lower rates and a domestic loss taxed at a higher rate as well as recognition of $1.4 million tax benefit as a result of implementing the 2012 American Taxpayer Relief Act. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was negatively impacted by acquisition related expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes as well as an increase in the valuation allowance against foreign tax credits as a result of the acquisition of ORCC. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was a benefit of 23.3%. The earnings of our foreign entities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $9.7 million. The tax rates in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are less than the domestic tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was positively impacted by foreign profits taxed at lower rates and a domestic loss taxed at a high rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was negatively impacted by S1 acquisition related expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes. Our effective tax rate is no longer negatively impacted by the recognition of tax expense associated with the transfer of certain intellectual property rights from U.S. to non-U.S. entities. 34 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be negatively affected to the extent earnings are lower in the countries in which we operate that have a lower statutory rate or higher in the countries in which we operate that have a higher statutory rate or the extent we have losses sustained in countries where the future utilization of losses are uncertain. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are occasionally subject to examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in the jurisdictions we operate. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Segment Results The following table presents revenues and income (loss) before income taxes for the periods indicated by geographic region (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Revenues: Americas $ 94,313 $ 74,181 EMEA 47,571 44,792 Asia/Pacific 20,113 18,652 $ 161,997 $ 137,625 Income (loss) before income taxes: Americas $ 12,967 $ 22,635 EMEA 15,055 11,462 Asia/Pacific 5,840 4,232 Corporate (38,472 ) (40,706 ) $ (4,610 ) $ (2,377 ) Operating segment results are impacted by both direct expenses and allocated shared function costs such as global product development, global customer operations and global product management. Shared function costs are allocated to the geographic operating segments as a percentage of revenue or as a percentage of headcount. All administrative costs that are not directly attributable or able to be allocated to a geographic segment are included in the corporate line item. The increase in revenue for all geographic segments is due to the addition of S1 in the middle of the three months ended March 31, 2012 and, for the Americas segment, ORCC during the three months ended March 31, 2013. The Company incurred one time integration expenses of approximately $6.6 million and $15 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets allocated to the Corporate business segment was approximately $6.7 million and $4.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Interest expense on long term debt allocated to the Corporate segment was approximately $3.9 million and $1.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company expects corporate costs to continue to decrease moving forward as the synergy savings from the acquisitions are realized. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs are: (i) to fund normal operating expenses; (ii) to meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, our cash and cash equivalents and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2013, we had $112.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. As of March 31, 2013, $66.4 million of the $112.5 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S. we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth summary cash flow data for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (amounts in thousands) Net cash provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 34,927 $ (12,614 ) Investing activities (273,207 ) (273,040 ) Financing activities 278,767 288,769 Net cash flows provided by (used by) operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 amounted to $34.9 million as compared to a $12.6 million usage during the same period in 2012. The comparative period increase was primarily due to an additional $20.7 million in cash receipts from customers during the first quarter of 2013 when compared to the same period in 2012. We also made an additional $10.4 million in tax payments during the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2013. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily for funding capital expenditures, lease payments, and acquisitions. During the first three months of 2013, we paid $250.2 million, net of $9.9 million in cash acquired, to acquire ORCC. In addition, we paid $14.0 million, net of $0.2 million in cash acquired, to acquire PTESA. We also used cash of $9.0 million to purchase software, property and equipment. In the first three months of 2013, we received proceeds of $300 million from our Credit Agreement to fund our purchase of ORCC. We repaid $3.8 million of the Term Credit Facility during the three months ended March 31, 2013 as well as $7.5 million of debt acquired with ORCC. In addition, during the first three months of 2013, we received proceeds of $5.6 million, including corresponding excess tax benefits, from the exercises of stock options and the issuance of common stock under our 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and used $5.5 million for the repurchase of restricted stock and performance shares for tax withholdings. We also made payments to third-party institutions, primarily related to debt and capital leases, totaling $10.1 million. We may decide to use cash to acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities, will satisfy our projected liquidity requirements, which primarily consists of working capital requirements, for the next twelve months and foreseeable future. Debt As of March 31, 2013, we had $482.5 million and $188 million outstanding under our Term and Revolving Credit Facilities, respectively, with up to $62 million of unused borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, as amended. The amount of unused borrowings actually available varies in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants relating to maximum permitted leverage ratio and the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The facility does not contain any subjective acceleration features and does not have any required payment or principal reduction schedule and is included as a long-term liability in our consolidated balance sheet. At March 31, 2013 (and at all times during these periods) we were in compliance with our debt covenants. The interest rate in effect at March 31, 2013 was 2.46%. 36 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Program As of December 31, 2011, our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase program authorizing us, from time to time as market and business conditions warrant, to acquire up to $210 million of our common stock. In February 2012, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $52.1 million to our current stock repurchase authorization, bringing the total authorization to $262.1 million. On September 13, 2012, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 2,500,000 shares of our common stock, or up to $113.0 million in place of the remaining repurchase amounts previously authorized. We did not repurchase shares under the program during the three months ended March 31, 2013. Under the program to date, we have purchased 9,519,872 shares for approximately $244.9 million. The maximum remaining authorized for purchase under the stock repurchase program was approximately 1.8 million shares or $88.2 million as of March 31, 2013. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased by us. Repurchased shares are returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In March 2005, our Board of Directors approved a plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of shares of common stock under the existing stock repurchase program. Under our Rule 10b5-1 plan, we have delegated authority over the timing and amount of repurchases to an independent broker who does not have access to inside information about the Company. Rule 10b5-1 allows us, through the independent broker, to purchase shares at times when we ordinarily would not be in the market because of self-imposed trading blackout periods, such as the time immediately preceding the end of the fiscal quarter through a period three business days following our quarterly earnings release. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments For the three months ended March 31, 2013, other than as discussed below, there have been no material changes to the contractual obligations and commercial commitments disclosed in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. Payments due by Period (amounts in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Contractual Obligations Acquired operating lease obligations (1) $ 12,401 $ 3,726 $ 6,366 $ 2,309 $ New operating lease obligations (2) 1,880 293 788 706 93 Term Credit Facility (3) 482,500 34,375 159,375 288,750 Term Credit Facility interest (4) 32,104 8,729 19,219 4,156 Total $ 528,885 $ 47,123 $ 185,748 $ 295,921 $ 93 (1) Operating leases acquired as a result of the acquisitions. (2) New operating lease obligations entered into during the three months ended March 31, 2013. (3) Increase in the Term Credit Facility represent debt used to partially fund acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2013. (4) Based upon the debt outstanding and interest rate in effect at March 31, 2013 of 2.46%. We are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Tax . The liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013 is $15.0 million. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions increased by $1.5 million and $0.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 for the uncertain tax positions of ORCC and PTESA, respectively, which were included in the preliminary purchase price allocation. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be proper and reasonable under the circumstances. We continually evaluate the appropriateness of estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 37 Table of Contents The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Business Combinations Intangible Assets and Goodwill Stock-Based Compensation Accounting for Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2013, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, filed on March 1, 2013, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.