Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Generally, forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include words or phrases such as believes, will, expects, anticipates, intends, and words and phrases of similar impact. The forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future operations, business strategy, business environment and key trends, as well as statements related to expected financial and other benefits from our organizational restructuring activities. Many of these factors will be important in determining our actual future results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be incorrect. They may be based on inaccurate assumptions or may not account for known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report, except as required by law. All of the forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by the risk factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the global financial crisis and the continuing decline in the global economy, restrictions and other financial covenants in our credit facility, volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy, the maturation of our current credit facility, the restatement of our financial statements, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry, the accuracy of managements backlog estimates, the cyclical nature of our revenue and earnings and the accuracy of forecasts due to the concentration of revenue generating activity during the final weeks of each quarter, impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, exposure to unknown tax liabilities, volatility in our stock price, risks from operating internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increased competition, our offshore software development activities, customer reluctance to switch to a new vendor, the performance of our strategic product, BASE24-eps, the maturity of certain products, our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products, ratable or deferred recognition of certain revenue associated with customer migrations and the maturity of certain of our products, demand for our products, failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or to obtain such renewals on favorable terms, delay or cancellation of customer projects or inaccurate project completion estimates, business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems, our alliance with International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), our outsourcing agreement with IBM, the complexity of our products and services and the risk that they may contain hidden defects or be subjected to security breaches or viruses, compliance of our products with applicable legislation, governmental regulations and industry standards, our compliance with privacy regulations, the protection of our intellectual property in intellectual property litigation, future acquisitions, strategic partnerships and investments and litigation. The cautionary statements in this report expressly qualify all of our forward-looking statements. The following discussion should be read together with our financial statements and related notes contained in this report and with the financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion & Analysis in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, filed February 18, 2011. Results for the three months ended March 31, 2011, are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. Overview We develop, market, install and support a broad line of software products and services primarily focused on facilitating electronic payments. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. Our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own sales force and supplements its sales force with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products and services are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors, both in domestic and international markets. Accordingly, our business and operating results are influenced by trends such as information technology spending levels, the growth rate of the electronic payments industry, mandated regulatory changes, and changes in the number and type of customers in the financial services industry. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide and ACI Payment Systems brands. 16 Table of Contents We derive a majority of our revenues from non-domestic operations and believe our greatest opportunities for growth exist largely in international markets. Refining our global infrastructure is a critical component of driving our growth. We have launched a globalization strategy which includes elements intended to streamline our supply chain and provide low-cost centers of expertise to support a growing international customer base. We utilize our Irish subsidiaries to manage certain of our intellectual property rights and to oversee and manage certain international product development and commercialization efforts. We also continue to grow low-cost centers of expertise in Timisoara, Romania and Bangalore, India. Key trends that currently impact our strategies and operations include: Global Financial Markets Uncertainty. The continuing uncertainty in the global financial markets has negatively impacted general business conditions. It is possible that a weakening economy could adversely affect our customers, their purchasing plans, or even their solvency, but we cannot predict whether or to what extent this will occur. We have diversified counterparties and customers, but we continue to monitor our counterparty and customer risks closely. While the effects of the economic conditions in the future are not predictable, we believe our global presence, the breadth and diversity of our service offerings and our enhanced expense management capabilities position us well in a slower economic climate. Market analysts, such as Boston Consulting Group, indicate that banks now recognize the importance of payments to their business, so providing services for that aspect of the business is of less risk than for other aspects of their business. Availability of Credit. There have been significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets during the past two years and many lenders and financial institutions have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. The availability of credit, confidence in the entire financial sector, and volatility in financial markets have been adversely affected. These disruptions are likely to have some impact on all institutions in the U.S. banking and financial industries, including our lenders and the lenders of our customers. While the Federal Reserve Bank and other Central Banks have provided liquidity into the banking system there is still uncertainty over the strength of short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets. Reduced liquidity in the markets could increase financing costs or reduce the availability of funds to finance our existing operations as well as those of our customers. We are not currently dependent upon short-term funding, and the limited availability of credit in the market has not affected our revolving credit facility or our liquidity or materially impacted our funding costs. Increasing electronic payment transaction volumes. Electronic payment volumes continue to increase around the world, taking market share from traditional cash and check transactions. In May 2010, Tower Group noted that global noncash payment transactions are expected to grow in volume at 4.95% per year through 2012 to a total of 299 billion items, with varying growth rates based on the type of payment and part of the world. We leverage the growth in transaction volumes through the licensing of new systems to customers whose older systems cannot handle increased volume and through the licensing of capacity upgrades to existing customers. Increasing competition. The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Our competition comes from in-house information technology departments, third-party electronic payment processors and third-party software companies located both within and outside of the United States. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, third-party processors tend to provide competition to our solutions, particularly among customers that do not seek to differentiate their electronic payment offerings. As consolidation in the financial services industry continues, we anticipate that competition for those customers will intensify. Adoption of open systems technology. In an effort to leverage lower-cost computing technologies and current technology staffing and resources, many financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors are seeking to transition their systems from proprietary technologies to open technologies. Our continued investment in open systems technologies is, in part, designed to address this demand. Electronic payments fraud and compliance. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, criminal elements continue to find ways to commit a growing volume of fraudulent transactions using a wide range of techniques. Financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors continue to seek ways to leverage new technologies to identify and prevent fraudulent transactions. Due to concerns with international terrorism and money laundering, financial institutions in particular are being faced with increasing scrutiny and regulatory pressures. We continue to see opportunity to offer our fraud detection solutions to help customers manage the growing levels of electronic payment fraud and compliance activity. 17 Table of Contents Adoption of smartcard technology. In many markets, card issuers are being required to issue new cards with embedded chip technology. Chip-based cards are more secure, harder to copy and offer the opportunity for multiple functions on one card (e.g. debit, credit, electronic purse, identification, health records, etc.). The EMV standard for issuing and processing debit and credit card transactions has emerged as the global standard, with many regions throughout the world working on EMV rollouts. The primary benefit of EMV deployment is a reduction in electronic payment fraud, with the additional benefit that the core infrastructure necessary for multi-function chip cards is being put in place (e.g., chip card readers in ATMs and POS devices) allowing the deployment of other technologies like contactless. We are working with many customers around the world to facilitate EMV deployments, leveraging several of our solutions. Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). The SEPA, primarily focused on the European Economic Community and the United Kingdom, is designed to facilitate lower costs for cross-border payments and reduce timeframes for settling electronic payment transactions. Our retail and wholesale banking solutions facilitate key functions that help financial institutions address these mandated regulations. Financial institution consolidation. Consolidation continues on a national and international basis, as financial institutions seek to add market share and increase overall efficiency. Such consolidations have increased, and may continue to increase, in their number, size and market impact as a result of the global economic crisis and the financial crisis affecting the banking and financial industries. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions may result in a smaller number of existing and potential customers for our products and services. Consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decides to forego future use of our products, our revenue would decline. Conversely, we could benefit from the combination of a non-customer and a customer when the combined entity continues use of our products and, as a larger combined entity, increases its demand for our products and services. We tend to focus on larger financial institutions as customers, often resulting in our solutions being the solutions that survive in the consolidated entity. Electronic payments convergence. As electronic payment volumes grow and pressures to lower overall cost per transaction increase, financial institutions are seeking methods to consolidate their payment processing across the enterprise. We believe that the strategy of using service-oriented-architectures to allow for re-use of common electronic payment functions such as authentication, authorization, routing and settlement will become more common. Using these techniques, financial institutions will be able to reduce costs, increase overall service levels, enable one-to-one marketing in multiple bank channels, leverage volumes for improved pricing and liquidity, and manage enterprise risk. Our product development strategy is, in part, focused on this trend, by creating integrated payment functions that can be re-used by multiple bank channels, across both the consumer and wholesale bank. While this trend presents an opportunity for us, it may also expand the competition from third-party electronic payment technology and service providers specializing in other forms of electronic payments. Many of these providers are larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. The banking, financial services and payments industries have come under increased scrutiny from federal, state and foreign lawmakers and regulators in response to the crises in the financial markets and the global recession. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which was signed into law July 21, 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry and requires the implementation of many new regulations that will have a direct impact on our customers and potential customers. These regulatory changes may create both opportunities and challenges for us. The application of the new regulations on our customers could create an opportunity for us to market our product capabilities and the flexibility of our solutions to assist our customers in addressing these regulations. At the same time, these regulatory changes may have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial results as we adjust our activities in light of increased compliance costs and customer requirements. It is currently too difficult to predict the actual extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact our business and the businesses of our current and potential customers. Several other factors related to our business may have a significant impact on our operating results from year to year. For example, the accounting rules governing the timing of revenue recognition in the software industry are complex and it can be difficult to estimate when we will recognize revenue generated by a given transaction. Factors such as maturity of the software product licensed, payment terms, creditworthiness of the customer, and timing of delivery or acceptance of our products often cause revenues related to sales generated in one period to be deferred and recognized in later periods. For arrangements in which services revenue is deferred, related direct and incremental costs may also be deferred. Additionally, while the majority of our contracts are denominated in the United States dollar, a substantial portion of our sales are made, and some of our expenses are incurred, in the local currency of countries other than the United States. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in a given period may result in the recognition of gains or losses for that period. 18 Table of Contents We continue to seek ways to grow, through organic sources, partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We continually look for potential acquisitions designed to improve our solutions breadth or provide access to new markets. As part of our acquisition strategy, we seek acquisition candidates that are strategic, capable of being integrated into our operating environment, and financially accretive to our financial performance. Acquisition On March 18, 2011, we closed the acquisition of ISD Holdings, Inc. and its 100% owned subsidiary ISD Corporation (collectively ISD). ISDs suite of products enables retailers to consolidate, manage, secure and route all electronic transactions from their point-of-sale systems to third party processors for authorization and settlement. The aggregate purchase price of ISD was $19.1 million, after working capital adjustments in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement, including $2.4 million in cash acquired. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to specific assets and liabilities was based on the relative fair value of all assets and liabilities. Backlog Included in backlog estimates are all software license fees, maintenance fees and services fees specified in executed contracts, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals to the extent that we believe recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. We have historically included assumed renewals in backlog estimates based upon automatic renewal provisions in the executed contract and our historic experience with customer renewal rates. Our 60-month backlog estimate represents expected revenues from existing customers using the following key assumptions: Maintenance fees are assumed to exist for the duration of the license term for those contracts in which the committed maintenance term is less than the committed license term. License and facilities management arrangements are assumed to renew at the end of their committed term at a rate consistent with our historical experiences. Non-recurring license arrangements are assumed to renew as recurring revenue streams. Foreign currency exchange rates are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period for those contracts stated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our pricing policies and practices are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period. In computing our 60-month backlog estimate, the following items are specifically not taken into account: Anticipated increases in transaction volumes in customer systems. Optional annual uplifts or inflationary increases in recurring fees. Services engagements, other than facilities management, are not assumed to renew over the 60-month backlog period. The potential impact of merger activity within our markets and/or customers. We review our customer renewal experience on an annual basis. The impact of this review and subsequent update may result in a revision to the renewal assumptions used in computing the 60-month and 12-month backlog estimates. In the event a revision to renewal assumptions is determined to be necessary, prior periods will be adjusted for comparability purposes. Based on our annual review of customer renewal experience completed during the three months ended December 31, 2010, backlog results for all reported periods have been updated to reflect our most current customer renewal experience. 19 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our 60-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 Americas $ 895 $ 871 EMEA 526 506 Asia/Pacific 192 189 Total $ 1,613 $ 1,566 Included in our 60-month backlog estimates are amounts expected to be recognized during the initial license term of customer contracts (Committed Backlog) and amounts expected to be recognized from assumed renewals of existing customer contracts (Renewal Backlog). Amounts expected to be recognized from assumed contract renewals are based on our historical renewal experience. The following table sets forth our 60-month Committed Backlog and Renewal Backlog estimates as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 Committed $ 890 $ 857 Renewal 723 709 Total $ 1,613 $ 1,566 We also estimate 12-month backlog, segregated between monthly recurring and non-recurring revenues, using a methodology consistent with the 60-month backlog estimate. Monthly recurring revenues include all monthly license fees, maintenance fees and processing services fees. Non-recurring revenues include other software license fees and services fees. Amounts included in our 12-month backlog estimate assume renewal of one-time license fees on a monthly fee basis if such renewal is expected to occur in the next 12 months. The following table sets forth our 12-month backlog estimate, by geographic region, as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Monthly Non- Monthly Non- Recurring Recurring Total Recurring Recurring Total Americas $ 166 $ 39 $ 205 $ 164 $ 43 $ 207 EMEA 101 34 135 103 27 130 Asia/Pacific 37 14 51 34 10 44 Total $ 304 $ 87 $ 391 $ 301 $ 80 $ 381 Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions as described above. These assumptions may turn out to be inaccurate or wrong, including for reasons outside of managements control. For example, our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in the customers industry or geographic location, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts which may cause the actual renewal rates and amounts to differ from historical experiences. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog estimates will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within the corresponding 12-month or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not required to be subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a GAAP financial measure. 20 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the condensed consolidated statements of operations as well as the percentage relationship to total revenues of items included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations (amounts in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 % of % of Total Total Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Revenues: Initial license fees (ILFs) $ 12,565 12.0 % $ 9,743 11.1 % Monthly license fees (MLFs) 31,159 29.8 % 19,574 22.3 % Software license fees 43,724 41.8 % 29,317 33.4 % Maintenance fees 35,070 33.5 % 33,422 38.1 % Services 15,371 14.7 % 14,618 16.7 % Software hosting fees 10,378 9.9 % 10,386 11.8 % Total revenues 104,543 100.0 % 87,743 100.0 % Expenses: Cost of software licenses fees 3,442 3.3 % 3,074 3.5 % Cost of maintenance, services, and hosting fees 29,607 28.3 % 27,892 31.8 % Research and development 23,130 22.1 % 18,396 21.0 % Selling and marketing 19,294 18.5 % 16,845 19.2 % General and administrative 16,362 15.7 % 17,462 19.9 % Depreciation and amortization 5,210 5.0 % 4,979 5.7 % Total expenses 97,045 92.8 % 88,648 101.0 % Operating income (loss) 7,498 7.2 % (905 ) -1.0 % Other income (expense): Interest income 238 0.2 % 124 0.1 % Interest expense (643 ) -0.6 % (523 ) -0.6 % Other, net (302 ) -0.3 % (214 ) -0.2 % Total other income (expense) (707 ) -0.7 % (613 ) -0.7 % Income (loss) before income taxes 6,791 6.5 % (1,518 ) -1.7 % Income tax expense 5,169 4.9 % 571 0.7 % Net income (loss) $ 1,622 1.6 % $ (2,089 ) -2.4 % Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2011 Compared to Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2010 Revenues Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased $16.8 million, or 19.1%, as compared to the same period in 2010. Total revenues increased as a result of a $14.4 million, or 49.1%, increase in software license fee revenues, a $1.6 million, or 4.9%, increase in maintenance fee revenue, and a $0.8 million, or 5.2%, increase in services revenues. The increase in total revenues was driven by increases in the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Pacific reportable operating segments of $6.0 million, $10.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Software License Fees Revenue Customers purchase the right to license ACI software for the term of their agreement which term is generally 60 months. Within these agreements are specified capacity limits typically based on customer transaction volumes. ACI employs measurement tools that monitor the number of transactions processed by customers and if contractually specified limits are exceeded, additional fees are charged for the overage. Capacity overages may occur at varying times throughout the term of the agreement depending on the product, the size of the customer, and the significance of customer transaction volume growth. Depending on specific circumstances, multiple overages or no overages may occur during the term of the agreement. 21 Table of Contents As a result of the maturation of certain retail payment engine products, a higher percentage of our initial license fees are being recognized ratably over an extended period. Initial license and capacity fees that are recognized as revenue ratably over an extended period are included in our monthly license fee revenues. Due to the compounding effect of this, our MLF revenues have increased significantly during the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. This shift of software license fees from ILF revenues to MLF revenues is expected to continue in future periods. Initial License Fees (ILF) Revenue ILF revenue includes license and capacity revenues that do not recur on a monthly or quarterly basis. Included in ILF revenues are license and capacity fees that are recognizable at the inception of the agreement and license and capacity fees that are recognizable at interim points during the term of the agreement, including those that are recognizable annually due to negotiated customer payment terms. ILF revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, increased by $2.8 million, or 29.0%. ILF revenue in the Americas and EMEA reportable operating segments increased by $1.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Included in the above are capacity related revenue increases of $0.7 million in the EMEA reportable operating segment offset by a decline of $0.3 million in the Americas reportable operating segment within the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. Monthly License Fees (MLF) Revenue MLF revenues are license and capacity revenues that are paid monthly or quarterly due to negotiated customer payment terms as well as initial license and capacity fees that are recognized as revenue ratably over an extended period as MLF revenue. MLF revenues increased $11.6 million, or 59.2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010 with the Americas and EMEA reportable operating segments increasing by $3.2 million and $8.4 million, respectively. The increase in MLF revenues is primarily due to the cumulative effect of ILF revenue that is being recognized ratably over an extended period as a result of the maturation of certain retail payment engine products. Maintenance Fees Revenue Maintenance fee revenue includes standard and enhanced maintenance or any post contract support fees received from customers for the provision of product support services. Maintenance fee revenues increased $1.6 million, or 4.9%, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010. Maintenance fee revenue increased in the Americas and EMEA reportable segments by $0.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively, while the Asia/Pacific reportable segment declined by $0.2 million. Increases in maintenance fee revenues are primarily driven by an increase in the customer installation base as well as expanded product usage. Services Revenue Services revenue includes fees earned through implementation services, professional services and facilities management services. Implementation services include product installations, product configurations, and retrofit custom software modifications (CSMs). Professional services include business consultancy, technical consultancy, on-site support services, CSMs, product education, and testing services. These services include new customer implementations as well as existing customer migrations to new products or new releases of existing products. During the period in which non-essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and incremental costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. During the period in which essential services revenue is being deferred, direct and indirect costs related to the performance of these services are also being deferred. Services revenue increased $0.8 million, or 5.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily as a result of an increase in implementation and professional services revenue in the Americas and Asia/Pacific reportable operating segments of $1.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a decline in the EMEA reportable operating segment of $1.1 million. Software Hosting Fees Revenue Software hosting fee revenue includes fees earned through hosting and on-demand arrangements. All revenues from hosting and on-demand arrangements that do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting, which may include set-up fees, implementation or customization services, and product support services, are included in software hosting fee revenue. Software hosting fees revenue was flat, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2010. 22 Table of Contents Expenses Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased $8.4 million, or 9.5%, as compared to the same period of 2010. Total expenses increased primarily as a result of a $4.7 million, or 25.7%, increase in research and development expenses, a $2.5 million, or 14.5%, increase in selling and marketing expenses, a $1.7 million, or 6.1%, increase in the cost of maintenance, services, and hosting fees, a $0.4 million, or 12.0%, increase in the cost of software license fees and a $0.2 million, or 4.6%, increase in depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a $1.1 million, or 6.3%, decrease in general and administrative expenses. Cost of Software License Fees The cost of software licenses for our products sold includes third-party software royalties as well as the amortization of purchased and developed software for resale. In general, the cost of software licenses for our products is minimal because we internally develop most of the software components, the cost of which is reflected in research and development expense as it is incurred as technological feasibility coincides with general availability of the software components. Cost of software licenses fees increased $0.4 million, or 12.0%, in the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. Third-party software royalty expense increased $0.3 million as a result of an increase in license revenue associated with certain products that include a corresponding royalty expense. Purchased or developed technology for resale amortization increased $0.1 million. Cost of Maintenance, Services, and Hosting fees Cost of maintenance, services and hosting fees includes costs to provide hosting services and both the costs of maintaining our software products as well as the service costs required to deliver, install and support software at customer sites. Maintenance costs include the efforts associated with providing the customer with upgrades, 24-hour help desk, post go-live (remote) support and production-type support for software that was previously installed at a customer location. Service costs include human resource costs and other incidental costs such as travel and training required for both pre go-live and post go-live support. Such efforts include project management, delivery, product customization and implementation, installation support, consulting, configuration, and on-site support. Cost of maintenance, services, and hosting fees for the three months ended March 31, 2011, increased $1.7 million, or 6.1%, compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to $1.2 million higher personnel and related costs and a $0.8 million decrease in net deferred expenses associated with project implementations, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in third-party maintenance and services related fees. Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses are primarily human resource costs related to the creation of new products, improvements made to existing products and the costs related to regulatory requirements and processing mandates as well as compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. R&D expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased $4.7 million, or 25.7%, compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to a $2.6 million decrease in net deferred expenses associated with various product development efforts, $1.1 million higher personnel and related costs, $0.7 million higher third-party contractor costs, and $0.3 million higher professional fees. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing includes both the costs related to selling our products to current and prospective customers as well as the costs related to promoting the Company, its products and the research efforts required to measure customers future needs and satisfaction levels. Selling costs are primarily the human resource and travel costs related to the effort expended to license our products and services to current and potential customers within defined territories and/or industries as well as the management of the overall relationship with customer accounts. Selling costs also include the costs associated with assisting distributors in their efforts to sell our products and services in their respective local markets. Marketing costs include costs needed to promote the Company and its products as well as perform or acquire market research to help us better understand what products our customers are looking for in the future. Marketing costs also include the costs associated with measuring customers opinions toward the Company, our products and personnel. 23 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased $2.5 million, or 14.5%, compared to the same period in 2010 due to $2.2 million higher personnel and related expenses and $0.4 million higher advertising and professional expenses, partially offset by $0.1 million lower internal IT costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are primarily human resource costs including executive salaries and benefits, personnel administration costs, and the costs of corporate support functions such as legal, administrative, human resources and finance and accounting. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 decreased $1.1 million, or 6.3%, compared to the same period in 2010 due to a $0.8 million decrease in bad debt expense and $0.6 million lower personnel and related costs partially offset by $0.2 million higher professional and advertising fees. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes charges for depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of acquired intangibles excluding amortization of purchased or developed technology for resale. Amortization of acquired intangibles include customer relationships, trade names, non-competes and other intangible assets. Depreciation and amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased $0.2 million, or 4.6%, compared to the same period in 2010 as a result of higher capital expenditures. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense includes interest income and expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and other non-operating items. Fluctuating currency rates impacted the three months ended March 31, 2011 by $0.2 million in net foreign currency losses, as compared with $0.1 million in net gains during the same period in 2010. The fair value of interest rate swaps resulted in a $0.2 million loss during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Interest income and interest expense were flat for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the corresponding period of 2010. Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was 76.1%. We reported tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010 while reporting a pretax loss for the same period. The resulting effective tax rate is negative. The effective tax rate in both periods is negatively impacted by our inability to recognize income tax benefits during the period on losses sustained in certain tax jurisdictions where the future utilization of the losses are uncertain, and by the recognition of tax expense associated with the transfer of certain intellectual property rights from U.S. to non-U.S. entities. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower in the countries in which we operate that have a lower statutory rate or higher in the countries in which we operate that have a higher statutory rate or the extent we have losses sustained in countries where the future utilization of losses are uncertain. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are occasionally subject to examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in the jurisdictions we operate. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 24 Table of Contents Segment Results The following table presents revenues and operating income (loss) for the periods indicated by geographic region (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Revenues: Americas $ 52,330 $ 46,316 EMEA 42,141 31,913 Asia/Pacific 10,072 9,514 $ 104,543 $ 87,743 Operating income (loss): Americas $ 5,963 $ 3,059 EMEA 6,260 (141 ) Asia/Pacific (4,725 ) (3,823 ) $ 7,498 $ (905 ) Reportable segment results are impacted by both direct expenses and allocated shared function costs such as global product delivery and development, global customer operations, global product management and corporate overhead costs. Shared function costs are allocated to the reportable segments as a percentage of revenue or as a percentage of headcount. Operating income in the Americas and EMEA reportable segments increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to increased revenues. Operating income in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment declined for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to increased allocated costs as a result of the headcount growth relative to the other reportable segments. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2011, we had $168.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. As of March 31, 2011, $89.2 million of the $168.9 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S. we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. As of March 31, 2011, we had up to $75.0 million of unused borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The amount of unused borrowings actually available under the revolving credit facility varies in accordance with the terms of the agreement. We believe that the amount currently available along with our current cash balance provides sufficient liquidity for at least the next twelve month period. The current credit facility will mature on September 29, 2011, at which time any principal amounts outstanding are due. We are currently in discussions with various lenders, including our current lenders, for a new credit facility and anticipate closing on the new facility prior to the maturation of the current facility. The revolving credit facility contains certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. The revolving credit facility also contains financial covenants relating to maximum permitted leverage ratio and the minimum interest coverage ratio. The facility does not contain any subjective acceleration features and does not have any required payment or principal reduction schedule and is included as a current liability in our consolidated balance sheet. At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, (and at all times during these periods) we were in compliance with our debt covenants. The interest rate in effect at March 31, 2011 was 1.01%. 25 Table of Contents We are not currently dependent upon short-term funding, and the limited availability of credit in the market has not affected our revolving credit facility, our liquidity or materially impacted our funding costs. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and the impact of the current economic crisis on our operating results and financial conditions, the amount of available unused borrowings under our existing credit facility may be insufficient to meet our needs and/or our access to capital outside of our existing credit facility may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, if one or more of the financial institutions in our syndicate were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We cannot assure you that alternative financing on acceptable terms would be available to replace any defaulted commitments. The existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and the current economic crisis may also impact our ability to successfully negotiate a new credit facility with our existing lenders or alternative lenders. We cannot guarantee that a new credit facility will be available to us or that we will be able to negotiate terms and conditions acceptable to us. In the event we are unable to successfully negotiate a new credit facility, all outstanding amounts under the existing credit facility will become due and payable. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities, will satisfy our projected liquidity requirements, which primarily consists of working capital requirements, for the next twelve months, even in the unlikely event that we are unable to successfully negotiate a new credit facility and all outstanding amounts under the existing credit facility become due and payable. In fiscal 2005, we announced that our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing us, from time to time as market and business conditions warrant, to acquire up to $80 million of our common stock. In May 2006, our board of directors approved an increase of $30 million to the stock repurchase program, bringing the total of the approved program to $110 million. In March 2007, our board of directors approved an increase of $100 million to its current repurchase authorization, bringing the total authorization to $210 million, of which approximately $22.9 million remains available at March 31, 2011. In June 2007, we implemented this previously announced increase to our share repurchase program. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased by us. Repurchased shares are returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In March 2005, our board of directors approved a plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of shares of common stock under the existing stock repurchase program. Under our Rule 10b5-1 plan, we have delegated authority over the timing and amount of repurchases to an independent broker who does not have access to inside information about the Company. Rule 10b5-1 allows us, through the independent broker, to purchase shares at times when we ordinarily would not be in the market because of self-imposed trading blackout periods, such as the time immediately preceding the end of the fiscal quarter through a period three business days following our quarterly earnings release. We did not purchase any shares under the repurchase plan during the three months ended March 31, 2011. We may also decide to use cash to acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. Cash Flows The following table sets forth summary cash flow data for the periods indicated. Please refer to this summary as you read our discussion of the sources and uses of cash in each period. Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (amounts in thousands) Net cash provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 17,943 $ 13,578 Investing activities (24,017 ) (5,649 ) Financing activities 2,107 (1,892 ) Net cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2011 amounted to $17.9 million as compared to $13.6 million during the same period in 2010. The comparative period increase in net cash flows from operating activities of $4.4 million was principally the result of an increase in net income of $3.7 million and a decrease in cash paid for taxes and cash paid to vendors of $5.6 million and $1.8 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in cash receipts from customers of $9.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to same period in 2010. 26 Table of Contents Net cash flows used by investing activities totaled $24.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to $5.6 million used by investing activities during the same period in 2010. This increase was largely driven by the $16.7 million of cash paid, net of $2.4 million in cash acquired, to acquire ISD during the three months ended March 31, 2011. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, we used cash of $7.0 million to purchase software, property and equipment and $0.3 million for costs related to fulfillment of the technical enablement milestones under the Alliance. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, we used cash of $3.9 million to purchase software, property and equipment and $1.7 million for costs related to fulfillment of the technical enablement milestones under the Alliance. Net cash flows provided by financing activities totaled $2.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to net cash flows used by financing activities of $1.9 million during the same period in 2010. We made payments to third-party financial institutions, primarily related to debt and capital leases, totaling $0.5 million and $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we received proceeds of $2.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively, including corresponding excess tax benefits, from the exercises of stock options and $0.3 million for the issuance of common stock under our 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, we used $3.0 million to repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase plan. We also realized a $1.5 million increase in cash during the three months ended March 31, 2011 related to foreign exchange rate variances compared to a $1.4 million decrease during the same period in 2010. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities, will satisfy our projected liquidity requirements to meet our working capital needs for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There have been no material changes to the contractual obligations and commercial commitments disclosed in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be proper and reasonable under the circumstances. We continually evaluate the appropriateness of estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Intangible Assets and Goodwill Stock-Based Compensation Accounting for Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2011, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates other than as discussed below. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, filed on February 18, 2011, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Effective January 1, 2011 we adopted on a prospective basis for all new or materially modified arrangements entered into on or after that date, the amended accounting guidance for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements and the amended guidance related to the scope of existing software revenue recognition guidance. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2011, nor do we expect it to have a material impact on our future financial statements. 27 Table of Contents A multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s); and if delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the Company. If these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each units relative selling price. The selling price for each element is based upon the following selling price hierarchy: vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) if available, third party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. We enter into hosting-related arrangements that may consist of multiple service deliverables including initial implementation and setup services; on-going support services; and other services. Our hosted products operate in a highly regulated and controlled environment which requires a highly specialized and unique set of initial implementation and setup services prior to the commencement of hosting-related services. Due to the essential and specialized nature of the implementation and setup services, these services do not qualify as separate units of accounting separate from the hosting service as the delivered services do not have value to the client on a stand-alone basis. The on-going support and other services are considered as separate units of accounting. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to each of the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling price and revenue is recognized over their respective service periods. As the support and other services periods are the same as the hosting service period, the recognition pattern is similar to what was experienced prior to adopting the amended accounting guidance for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements.