ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Generally, forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include words or phrases such as believes, will, expects, anticipates, intends, and words and phrases of similar impact. The forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future operations, business strategy, business environment, key trends, and, in each case, statements related to expected financial and other benefits. Many of these factors will be important in determining our actual future results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be incorrect. They may be based on inaccurate assumptions or may not account for known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report, except as required by law. All of the forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by the risk factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to: increased competition; the performance of our strategic products, Universal Payments solutions; demand for our products; consolidations and failures in the financial services industry; customer reluctance to switch to a new vendor; failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or to obtain such renewals on favorable terms; delay or cancellation of customer projects or inaccurate project completion estimates; the complexity of our products and services and the risk that they may contain hidden defects; compliance of our products with applicable legislation, governmental regulations, and industry standards; failing to comply with money transmitter rules and regulations; our compliance with privacy regulations; being subject to security breaches or viruses; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property; increasing intellectual property rights litigation; certain payment funding methods expose us to the credit and/or operating risk of our clients; business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems; our offshore software development activities; operating internationally; global economic conditions impact on demand for our products and services; attracting and retaining employees; potential future litigation; our sale of Community Financial Services (CFS) assets and liabilities to Fiserv, Inc. (Fiserv), including potential claims arising under the transaction agreement, the transition services agreement or with respect to retained liabilities; future acquisitions, strategic partnerships, and investments; impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets; restrictions and other financial covenants in our debt; difficulty meeting our debt service requirements; the accuracy of our backlog estimates; 22 Table of Contents exposure to unknown tax liabilities; the cyclical nature of our revenue and earnings and the accuracy of forecasts due to the concentration of revenue generating activity during the final weeks of each quarter; and volatility in our stock price. The cautionary statements in this report expressly qualify all of our forward-looking statements. The following discussion should be read together with our financial statements and related notes contained in this report and with the financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion & Analysis in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed March 1, 2019. Results for the three months ended March 31, 2019, are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. Overview ACI Worldwide, Inc., the Universal Payments (UP) company, powers electronic payments for more than 5,100 organizations around the world. More than 1,000 of the largest financial institutions and intermediaries, as well as thousands of leading global merchants, rely on ACI to execute approximately $14 trillion each day in payments and securities. In addition, thousands of organizations utilize our electronic bill payment and presentment (EBPP) services. Through our comprehensive suite of solutions, we deliver real-time, immediate payments capabilities and enable a complete omni-channel payments experience. Our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own globally coordinated sales force and supplements its sales force with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products and solutions are used globally by banks, financial intermediaries, and merchants and corporates, such as third-party electronic payment processors, payment associations, switch interchanges, and a wide range of transaction-generating endpoints, including ATMs, merchant point-of-sale (POS) terminals, bank branches, mobile phones, tablets, corporations, and Internet commerce sites. Accordingly, our business and operating results are influenced by trends such as information technology spending levels, the growth rate of electronic payments, mandated regulatory changes, and changes in the number and type of customers in the financial services industry. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide, ACI Universal Payment, and ACI UP brands. We derive a majority of our revenues from domestic operations and believe we have large opportunities for growth in international markets as well as continued expansion domestically in the United States. Refining our global infrastructure is a critical component of driving our growth. We have launched a globalization strategy, which includes elements intended to streamline our supply chain and maximize expertise in several geographic locations to support a growing international customer base and competitive needs. We utilize our Irish subsidiaries to manage certain of our intellectual property rights and to oversee and manage certain international product development and commercialization efforts. We increased our SaaS and PaaS capabilities with a data center in Ireland allowing our SaaS and PaaS solutions to be more-broadly offered in the European market. We also continue to grow centers of expertise in Timisoara, Romania and Pune and Bangalore in India, as well as key operational centers such as Cape Town, South Africa and in multiple locations in the United States. Key trends that currently impact our strategies and operations include: Increasing electronic payment transaction volumes. Electronic payment volumes continue to increase around the world, taking market share from traditional cash and check transactions. In their World Payments Report, Capgemini predicts non-cash transaction volumes will grow at an annual rate of 12.7%, or from 482.5 billion in 2016 to 876.4 billion in 2021, with varying growth rates based on the type of payment and part of the world. We leverage the growth in transaction volumes through the licensing of new systems to customers whose older systems cannot handle increased volume and through the sale of capacity upgrades to existing customers. Adoption of real-time payments. Customer expectations, from both consumers and corporate, are driving the payments world to more real-time delivery. In the U.K., payments sent through the traditional ACH multi-day batch service can now be sent through the Faster Payments service giving almost immediate access to the funds, and this is being considered and implemented in several countries including Australia and the United States. In the U.S. market, National Automated Clearinghouse Association (NACHA) implemented phase 2 of Same Day ACH in September 2017. Corporate customers expect real-time information on the status of their payments instead of waiting for an end of-day report. Regulators expect banks to be monitoring key measures like liquidity in real time. ACIs focus has always been on the real-time execution of transactions and delivery of information through real-time tools, such as dashboards, so our experience will be valuable in addressing this trend. Increasing competition. The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Our competition comes from in-house information technology departments, third-party electronic payment processors, and third-party software companies located both within and outside of the United States. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, third-party processors tend to provide competition to our solutions, particularly among customers that do not seek to differentiate their electronic payment offerings or are eliminating banks from the payments service, reducing the need for our solutions. As consolidation in the financial services industry continues, we anticipate that competition for those customers will intensify. 23 Table of Contents Adoption of cloud technology. To leverage lower-cost computing technologies, some banks, financial intermediaries, merchants and corporates are seeking to transition their systems to make use of cloud technology. Our investments provide us the grounding to deliver cloud capabilities in the future. Market sizing data from Ovum indicates that spend on SaaS and PaaS payment systems is growing faster than spend on installed applications. Electronic payments fraud and compliance . As electronic payment transaction volumes increase, organized criminal organizations continue to find ways to commit a growing volume of fraudulent transactions using a wide range of techniques. Banks, financial intermediaries, and merchants and corporates continue to seek ways to leverage new technologies to identify and prevent fraudulent transactions and other attacks such as denial of service attacks. Due to concerns with international terrorism and money laundering, banks and financial intermediaries in particular are being faced with increasing scrutiny and regulatory pressures. We continue to see opportunity to offer our fraud detection solutions to help customers manage the growing levels of electronic payments fraud and compliance activity. Adoption of smartcard technology. In many markets, card issuers are being required to issue new cards with embedded chip technology, with the liability shift having gone into effect in 2015 in the United States. Chip-based cards are more secure, harder to copy, and offer the opportunity for multiple functions on one card (e.g., debit, credit, electronic purse, identification, health records, etc.). This results in greater card-not-present fraud (e.g., fraud at eCommerce sites). Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). The SEPA, primarily focused on the European economic community and the U.K., is designed to facilitate lower costs for cross-border payments and reduce timeframes for settling electronic payment transactions. The transition to SEPA payment mechanisms will drive more volume to these systems with the potential to cause banks to review the capabilities of the systems supporting these payments. Our Retail Payments and Real-Time Payments solutions facilitate key functions that help banks and financial intermediaries address these mandated regulations. European Payment Service Directive (PSD2). PSD2, which was ratified by the European Parliament in 2015, required member states to implement new payments regulations in 2018. The XS2A provision effectively creates a new market opportunity where banks in European Union member countries must provide open API standards to customer data, thus allowing authorized third-party providers to enter the market. Financial institution consolidation. Consolidation continues on a national and international basis, as financial institutions seek to add market share and increase overall efficiency. Such consolidations have increased, and may continue to increase, in their number, size, and market impact as a result of recent economic conditions affecting the banking and financial industries. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions may result in a smaller number of existing and potential customers for our products and services. Consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity decides to forego future use of our products, our revenue would decline. Conversely, we could benefit from the combination of a non-customer and a customer when the combined entity continues use of our products and, as a larger combined entity, increases its demand for our products and services. We tend to focus on larger financial institutions as customers, often resulting in our solutions being the solutions that survive in the consolidated entity. Global vendor sourcing. Global and regional banks, financial intermediaries, and merchants and corporates are aiming to reduce the costs in supplier management by picking suppliers who can service them across all their geographies instead of allowing each country operation to choose suppliers independently. Our global footprint from both a customer and a delivery perspective enable us to be successful in this global sourced market. However, projects in these environments tend to be more complex and therefore of higher risk. Electronic payments convergence. As electronic payment volumes grow and pressures to lower overall cost per transaction increase, banks and financial intermediaries are seeking methods to consolidate their payments processing across the enterprise. We believe that the strategy of using service-oriented architectures to allow for re-use of common electronic payment functions, such as authentication, authorization, routing and settlement, will become more common. Using these techniques, banks and financial intermediaries will be able to reduce costs, increase overall service levels, enable one-to-one marketing in multiple bank channels, leverage volumes for improved pricing and liquidity, and manage enterprise risk. Our product strategy is, in part, focused on this trend, by creating integrated payment functions that can be re-used by multiple bank channels, across both the consumer and wholesale bank. While this trend presents an opportunity for us, it may also expand the competition from third-party electronic payment technology and service providers specializing in other forms of electronic payments. Many of these providers are larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. 24 Table of Contents Mobile banking and payments. There is a growing demand for the ability to carry out banking services or make payments using a mobile phone. Recent statistics from Javelin Strategy & Research, a subsidiary of Greenwich Associates, show that 50% of adults in the United States use their phone for mobile banking. The use of phones for mobile banking is expected to grow to 81% in 2020. Our customers have been making use of existing products to deploy mobile banking, mobile payments, and mobile commerce solutions for their customers in many countries. In addition, ACI has invested in mobile products of our own and via partnerships to support mobile functionality in the marketplace. Electronic bill payment and presentment. EBPP encompasses all facets of bill payment, including biller direct, where customers initiate payments on biller websites, the consolidator model, where customers initiate payments on a financial institutions website, and walk-in bill payment, as one might find in a convenience store. The EBPP market continues to grow as consumers move away from traditional forms of paper-based payments. Nearly three out of four (73%) online payments are made at the billers sites, rather than through banking websites, up 11% since 2010. The biller-direct solutions are seeing strong growth as billers migrate these services to outsourcers, such as ACI, from legacy systems built in house. We believe that EBPP remains ripe for outsourcing, as a significant amount of biller-direct transactions are still processed in house. As billers seek to manage costs and improve efficiency, we believe that they will continue to look to third-party EBPP vendors that can offer a complete solution for their billing needs. Several other factors related to our business may have a significant impact on our operating results from year to year. For example, the accounting rules governing the timing of revenue recognition are complex and it can be difficult to estimate when we will recognize revenue generated by a given transaction. Factors such as creditworthiness of the customer and timing of transfer of control or acceptance of our products may cause revenues related to sales generated in one period to be deferred and recognized in later periods. For arrangements in which services revenue is deferred, related direct and incremental costs may also be deferred. Additionally, while the majority of our contracts are denominated in the U.S. dollar, a substantial portion of our sales are made, and some of our expenses are incurred, in the local currency of countries other than the United States. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in a given period may result in the recognition of gains or losses for that period. We continue to seek ways to grow through organic sources, partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We continually look for potential acquisitions designed to improve our solutions breadth or provide access to new markets. As part of our acquisition strategy, we seek acquisition candidates that are strategic, capable of being integrated into our operating environment, and accretive to our financial performance. Acquisition Speedpay On May 9, 2019, we acquired Speedpay, the U.S. bill pay business of Western Union Company (WU) for $750.0 million in cash, subject to adjustments, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement, among the Company, WU, and ACI Worldwide Corp., our wholly owned subsidiary. The combination of the Company and Speedpay bill pay solutions will serve more than 4,000 customers across the U.S., bringing expanded reach in existing and complementary market segments such as consumer finance, insurance, healthcare, higher education, utilities, government, and mortgage. The acquisition of Speedpay will increase the scale of our On Demand platform business and allow the acceleration of platform innovation. Effective April 5, 2019, we entered into an amendment agreement (the amendment) with ACI Worldwide Corp., Official Payments Corporation, the lenders, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders, to amend and restate our Credit Agreement, dated February 24, 2017. The amendment permitted us to borrow up to $500.0 million in the form of a senior secured term loan; extended the revolver and the term loan maturity date from February 24, 2022, to April 5, 2024; and increased the maximum consolidated senior secured net leverage ratio covenant from 3.50:1.00 to 3.75:1.00; among other things. We used the funds from the new term loan, in addition to drawing $250.0 million on the available Revolving Credit Facility, to fund the acquisition. Backlog Backlog is comprised of: Committed Backlog, which includes (1) contracted revenue that will be recognized in future periods (contracted but not recognized) from software license fees, maintenance fees, services fees, and SaaS and PaaS fees specified in executed contracts (including estimates of variable consideration if required under ASC 606) and included in the transaction price for those contracts, which includes deferred revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods and (2) estimated future revenues from software license fees, maintenance fees, services fees, and SaaS and PaaS fees specified in executed contracts. Renewal Backlog, which includes estimated future revenues from assumed contract renewals to the extent we believe recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. 25 Table of Contents We have historically included assumed renewals in backlog estimates based upon automatic renewal provisions in the executed contract and our historic experience with customer renewal rates. Our 60-month backlog estimates are derived using the following key assumptions: License arrangements are assumed to renew at the end of their committed term or under the renewal option stated in the contract at a rate consistent with historical experience. If the license arrangement includes extended payment terms, the renewal estimate is adjusted for the effects of a significant financing component. Maintenance fees are assumed to exist for the duration of the license term for those contracts in which the committed maintenance term is less than the committed license term. SaaS and PaaS arrangements are assumed to renew at the end of their committed term at a rate consistent with our historical experiences. Foreign currency exchange rates are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period for those contracts stated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our pricing policies and practices are assumed to remain constant over the 60-month backlog period. In computing our 60-month backlog estimate, the following items are specifically not taken into account: Anticipated increases in transaction, account, or processing volumes by our customers. Optional annual uplifts or inflationary increases in recurring fees. Services engagements, other than SaaS and PaaS arrangements, are not assumed to renew over the 60-month backlog period. The potential impact of consolidation activity within our markets and/or customers. We review our customer renewal experience on an annual basis. The impact of this review and subsequent updates may result in a revision to the renewal assumptions used in computing the 60-month backlog estimates. In the event a significant revision to renewal assumptions is determined to be necessary, prior periods will be adjusted for comparability purposes. The following table sets forth our 60-month backlog estimate, by reportable segment, as of March 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018 (in millions). Dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 ACI On Premise $ 1,861 $ 1,875 ACI On Demand 2,290 2,299 Total $ 4,151 $ 4,174 March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Committed $ 1,734 $ 1,832 Renewal 2,417 2,342 Total $ 4,151 $ 4,174 Estimates of future financial results require substantial judgment and are based on several assumptions, as described above. These assumptions may turn out to be inaccurate or wrong for reasons outside of managements control. For example, our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for many reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in the customers industry or geographic location. We may also experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts, which may cause the actual renewal rates and amounts to differ from historical experiences. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog estimates will generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within the corresponding 60-month period. Additionally, because certain components of Committed Backlog and all of Renewal Backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not required to be subject to the same level of internal review or controls as contracted but not recognized Committed Backlog. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the condensed consolidated statements of operations, as well as the percentage relationship to total revenues for items included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in thousands): Three Month Period Ended March 31, 2019, Compared to the Three Month Period Ended March 31, 2018 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Amount % of Total Revenue $ Change vs 2018 % Change vs 2018 Amount % of Total Revenue Revenues: Software as a service and platform as a service $ 108,557 53 % $ 4,277 4 % $ 104,280 50 % License 21,078 10 % (6,968 ) -25 % 28,046 13 % Maintenance 55,111 27 % (1,548 ) -3 % 56,659 27 % Services 21,109 10 % 784 4 % 20,325 10 % Total revenues 205,855 100 % (3,455 ) -2 % 209,310 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 114,941 56 % 7,605 7 % 107,336 51 % Research and development 36,194 18 % (597 ) -2 % 36,791 18 % Selling and marketing 29,430 14 % (2,463 ) -8 % 31,893 15 % General and administrative 31,517 15 % 2,868 10 % 28,649 14 % Depreciation and amortization 21,866 11 % 521 2 % 21,345 10 % Total operating expenses 233,948 114 % 7,934 4 % 226,014 108 % Operating loss (28,093 ) -14 % (11,389 ) 68 % (16,704 ) -8 % Other income (expense): Interest expense (11,614 ) -6 % (2,249 ) 24 % (9,365 ) -4 % Interest income 3,033 1 % 289 11 % 2,744 1 % Other, net (1,912 ) -1 % (1,857 ) 3376 % (55 ) 0 % Total other income (expense) (10,493 ) -5 % (3,817 ) 57 % (6,676 ) -3 % Loss before income taxes (38,586 ) -19 % (15,206 ) 65 % (23,380 ) -11 % Income tax benefit (12,623 ) -6 % (8,671 ) 219 % (3,952 ) -2 % Net loss $ (25,963 ) -13 % $ (6,535 ) 34 % $ (19,428 ) -9 % Revenues Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, decreased $3.5 million, or 2%, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total revenue was $3.7 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was flat compared to the same period in 2018. Software as a Service (SaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) Revenue The Companys SaaS arrangements allow customers to use certain software solutions (without taking possession of the software) in a single-tenant cloud environment on a subscription basis. The Companys PaaS arrangements allow customers to use certain software solutions (without taking possession of the software) in a multi-tenant cloud environment on a subscription or consumption basis. Included in SaaS and PaaS revenue are fees paid by our customers for use of our Biller solutions. Biller-related fees may be paid by our clients or directly by their customers and may be a percentage of the underlying transaction amount, a fixed fee per executed transaction or a monthly fee for each customer enrolled. SaaS and PaaS costs include payment card interchange fees, the amounts payable to banks and payment card processing fees, which are included in cost of revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. All revenue from SaaS and PaaS arrangements that does not qualify for treatment as a distinct performance obligation, which includes set-up fees, implementation or customization services, and product support services, are included in SaaS and PaaS revenue. SaaS and PaaS revenue increased $4.3 million, or 4%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total SaaS and PaaS revenue was $0.9 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total SaaS and PaaS revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $5.2 million, or 5%, compared to the same period in 2018, which is primarily attributable to new customers adopting our SaaS and PaaS offerings and existing customers adding new functionality or increasing transaction volumes. 27 Table of Contents License Revenue Customers purchase the right to license ACI software under multi-year, time-based software license arrangements that vary in length but are generally five years. Under these arrangements the software is installed at the customers location (i.e. on-premise). Within these agreements are specified capacity limits typically based on customer transaction volume. ACI employs measurement tools that monitor the number of transactions processed by customers and if contractually specified limits are exceeded, additional fees are charged for the overage. Capacity overages may occur at varying times throughout the term of the agreement depending on the product, the size of the customer, and the significance of customer transaction volume growth. Depending on specific circumstances, multiple overages or no overages may occur during the term of the agreement. Included in license revenue are license and capacity fees that are payable at the inception of the agreement or annually (initial license fees). License revenue also includes license and capacity fees payable quarterly or monthly due to negotiated customer payment terms (monthly license fees). The Company recognizes revenue in advance of billings for software license arrangements with extended payment terms and adjusts for the effects of the financing component, if significant. Total license revenue decreased $7.0 million, or 25%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total license revenue was $0.7 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total license revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, decreased $6.3 million, or 22%, compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in total license revenue was primarily driven by the timing and relative size of license and capacity events during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue includes standard and premium maintenance and any post contract support fees received from customers for the provision of product support services. Maintenance revenue decreased $1.5 million, or 3%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total maintenance revenue was $1.6 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018 due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total maintenance revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, remained flat compared to the same period in 2018. Services Revenue Services revenue includes fees earned through implementation services and other professional services. Implementation services include product installations, product configurations, and custom software modifications (CSMs). Other professional services include business consultancy, technical consultancy, on-site support services, CSMs, product education, and testing services. These services include new customer implementations as well as existing customer migrations to new products or new releases of existing products. Services revenue increased $0.8 million, or 4%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total services revenue was $0.5 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018 due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total services revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $1.3 million, or 6%, compared to the same period in 2018. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $7.9 million, or 4%, as compared to the same period in 2018. Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, included $4.7 million of significant transaction-related expenses associated with the planned acquisition of Speedpay. Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, included $4.3 million of significant integration and divestiture-related expenses. Total operating expenses were $5.3 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the significant acquisition and integration related expenses and the impact of foreign currency, total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $12.8 million, or 6%, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher cost of revenue, general and administrative, and depreciation and amortization expenses, partially offset by lower selling and marketing. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes costs to provide SaaS and PaaS services, third-party royalties, amortization of purchased and developed software for resale, the costs of maintaining our software products, as well as the costs required to deliver, install, and support software at customer sites. SaaS and PaaS service costs include payment card interchange fees, amounts payable to banks, and payment card processing fees. Maintenance costs include the efforts associated with providing the customer with upgrades, 24-hour help desk, post go-live (remote) support, and production-type support for software that was previously installed at a customer location. Service costs include human resource costs and other incidental costs such as travel and training required for both pre go-live and post go-live support. Such efforts include project management, delivery, product customization and implementation, installation support, consulting, configuration, and on-site support. Cost of revenue increased $7.6 million, or 7%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. Cost of revenue was $1.9 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, cost of revenue increased $9.5 million, or 9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $5.1 million increase in payment card interchange and processing fees, a $2.5 million increase in third-party product royalty expenses, and a $1.9 million increase in personnel and related expenses. Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses are primarily human resource costs related to the creation of new products, improvements made to existing products as well as compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. R&D expense decreased $0.6 million, or 2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. R&D expense was $1.4 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, R&D expense increased $0.8 million, or 2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in personnel and related expenses. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing includes both the costs related to selling our products to current and prospective customers as well as the costs related to promoting the Company, its products and the research efforts required to measure customers future needs and satisfaction levels. Selling costs are primarily the human resource and travel costs related to the effort expended to license our products and services to current and potential clients within defined territories and/or industries as well as the management of the overall relationship with customer accounts. Selling costs also include the costs associated with assisting distributors in their efforts to sell our products and services in their respective local markets. Marketing costs include costs incurred to promote the Company and its products, perform or acquire market research to help the Company better understand impending changes in customer demand for and of our products, and the costs associated with measuring customers opinions toward the Company, our products and personnel. Selling and marketing expense decreased $2.5 million, or 8%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Selling and marketing expense was $1.0 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, selling and marketing expense decreased $1.4 million, or 5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to a decrease in personnel and related expenses, primarily as the result of a decrease in total bookings. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are primarily human resource costs including executive salaries and benefits, personnel administration costs, and the costs of corporate support functions such as legal, administrative, human resources, and finance and accounting. General and administrative expense increased $2.9 million, or 10%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, included $4.7 million of significant transaction-related expenses associated with the planned acquisition of Speedpay. Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, included $4.0 million of significant integration and divestiture-related expenses. General and administrative expense was $0.6 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the significant acquisition and integration expenses and the impact of foreign currency, general and administrative expense increased $2.7 million, or 11%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to an increase in personnel and related expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $0.5 million, or 2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. Depreciation and amortization was $0.4 million lower for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to the impact of foreign currencies weakening against the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, depreciation and amortization increased $0.9 million, or 4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018. 29 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $2.2 million, or 24%, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to $1.8 million of interest expense related to royalty payments. Excluding the impact of interest expense related to royalty payments, interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $0.4 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2018. Interest income includes the portion of software license fees paid by customers under extended payment terms that is attributed to the significant financing component. Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased $0.3 million, as compared to the same period in 2018. Other, net consists of foreign currency loss and other non-operating items. Foreign currency loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, was $1.9 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Income Taxes Refer to Note 12, Income Taxes, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Segment Results We report financial performance based on our segments, ACI On Premise and ACI On Demand, and analyze Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a measure of segment profitability. Our Chief Executive Officer is also our chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM, together with other senior management personnel, focus their review on consolidated financial information and the allocation of resources based on operating results, including revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA, for each segment, separate from the corporate operations. ACI On Premise serves customers who manage their software on site. These on-premise customers use the Companys software to develop sophisticated solutions, which are often part of a larger system located and managed at the customer specified site. These customers require a level of control and flexibility that ACI On Premise solutions can offer, and they have the resources and expertise to take a lead role in managing these solutions. ACI On Demand serves the needs of banks, merchants and corporates who use payments to facilitate their core business. These on-demand solutions are maintained and delivered through the cloud via our global data centers and are available in either a single-tenant environment for SaaS offerings, or in a multi-tenant environment for PaaS offerings. Revenue is attributed to the reportable segments based upon the product sold and mechanism for delivery to the customer. Expenses are attributed to the reportable segments in one of three methods, (1) direct costs of the segment, (2) labor costs that can be attributed based upon time tracking for individual products, or (3) costs that are allocated. Allocated costs are generally marketing and sales related activities as well as information technology and facilities related expense for which multiple segments benefit. We also allocate certain depreciation costs to the segments. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is the measure reported to the CODM for purposes of making decisions on allocating resources and assessing the performance of our segments and, therefore, Segment Adjusted EBITDA is presented in conformity with ASC 280, Segment Reporting. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings (loss) from operations before interest, income tax expense (benefit), depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation, and net other income (expense). Corporate and unallocated expenses consists of the corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to reportable segments. These overhead costs relate to human resources, finance, legal, accounting, merger and acquisition activity, and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance. 30 Table of Contents The following is selected financial data for our reportable segments (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Revenue ACI On Premise $ 96,007 $ 105,030 ACI On Demand 109,848 104,280 Total revenue $ 205,855 $ 209,310 Segment Adjusted EBITDA ACI On Premise $ 28,268 $ 38,898 ACI On Demand (262 ) (4,233 ) Depreciation and amortization (24,852 ) (24,993 ) Stock-based compensation expense (6,585 ) (6,362 ) Corporate and unallocated expenses (24,662 ) (20,014 ) Interest, net (8,581 ) (6,621 ) Other, net (1,912 ) (55 ) Loss before income taxes $ (38,586 ) $ (23,380 ) Depreciation and amortization ACI On Premise $ 3,030 $ 2,975 ACI On Demand 7,562 7,736 Corporate 14,260 14,282 Total depreciation and amortization $ 24,852 $ 24,993 Stock-based compensation expense ACI On Premise $ 1,956 $ 1,467 ACI On Demand 1,951 1,463 Corporate 2,678 3,432 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 6,585 $ 6,362 ACI On Premise Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $9.0 million decrease in revenue driven by timing and size of certain license and capacity events. ACI On Demand Segment Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $5.6 million increase in revenues, a $2.0 million decrease in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by a $5.1 million increase in payment card interchange and processing fees. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs are: (i) to fund normal operating expenses; (ii) to meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures, and lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, our cash and cash equivalents, and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Available Liquidity The following table sets forth our available liquidity for the periods indicated (in thousands): March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 176,173 $ 148,502 Availability under revolving credit facility 500,000 500,000 Total liquidity $ 676,173 $ 648,502 The increase in total liquidity is primarily attributable to positive operating cash flows of $42.4 million, offset by $9.8 million of payments to purchase property and equipment and software and distribution rights. 31 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. As of March 31, 2019, we had $176.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $79.7 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S., we may potentially be required to accrue and pay foreign and U.S. state income taxes to repatriate these funds. As of March 31, 2019, only the earnings in our Indian foreign subsidiaries are indefinitely reinvested. The earnings of all other foreign entities are no longer indefinitely reinvested. We are also permanently reinvested for outside book/tax basis difference related to foreign subsidiaries. These outside basis differences could reverse through sales of the foreign subsidiaries, as well as various other events, none of which are considered probable as of March 31, 2019. Cash Flows The following table sets forth summarized cash flow data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 42,427 $ 45,136 Investing activities (9,828 ) (12,589 ) Financing activities (5,361 ) (29,695 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019, were $42.4 million as compared to $45.1 million during the same period in 2018. The comparative period decrease was primarily due to a higher net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, as well as timing of receipts and payments. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily for funding capital expenditures, lease payments, stock repurchases, and acquisitions. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the first three months of 2019, we used cash of $9.8 million to purchase software, property and equipment, as compared to $12.6 million during the same period in 2018. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash flows used by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were $5.4 million as compared to $29.7 million during the same period in 2018. During the first three months of 2019, we repaid $5.9 million on the Term Credit Facility. In addition, we received proceeds of $5.7 million from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of common stock under our 2017 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and used $2.6 million for the repurchase of restricted share awards (RSAs) and restricted share units (RSUs) for tax withholdings. We also used $0.6 million to repurchase common stock. During the first three months of 2018, we repaid $5.2 million on the Term Credit Facility and repaid a net $2.0 million on the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, we received proceeds of $9.9 million from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of common stock under our 2017 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and used $0.9 million for the repurchase of RSAs for tax withholdings. We also used $31.1 million to repurchase common stock. We may decide to use cash to acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel, or through investments in other companies. We believe our existing sources of liquidity, including cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities, will satisfy our projected liquidity requirements, which primarily consists of working capital requirements, for the next twelve months and foreseeable future. Debt As of March 31, 2019, we had $279.0 million outstanding under our Term Credit Facility, with up to $500.0 million of unused borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, as amended. The interest rate in effect as of March 31, 2019, was 4.25%. As of March 31, 2019, we also had $400.0 million outstanding of 5.750% Senior Notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). Refer to Note 4, Debt, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Stock Repurchase Program In 2005, our board of directors (the board) approved a stock repurchase program authorizing us, as market and business conditions warrant, to acquire our common stock and periodically authorize additional funds for the program. In February 2018, the board approved the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of our common stock in place of the remaining purchase amounts previously authorized. 32 Table of Contents We repurchased 23,802 shares for $0.6 million under the program during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Under the program to date, we have repurchased 44,153,195 shares for approximately $548.5 million. As of March 31, 2019, the maximum remaining amount authorized for purchase under the stock repurchase program was approximately $176.0 million. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares we will repurchase. Repurchased shares are returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In March 2005, our board approved a plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of shares of common stock under the existing stock repurchase program. Under our Rule 10b5-1 plan, we have delegated authority over the timing and amount of repurchases to an independent broker who does not have access to inside information about the Company. Rule 10b5-1 allows us, through the independent broker, to purchase shares at times when we ordinarily would not be in the market because of self-imposed trading blackout periods, such as the time immediately preceding the end of the fiscal quarter through a period of three business days following our quarterly earnings release. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments For the three months ended March 31, 2019, there have been no material changes to the contractual obligations and commercial commitments disclosed in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. We are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Tax . The liability for unrecognized tax benefits as of March 31, 2019, is $28.3 million. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions we believe to be proper and reasonable under the circumstances. We continually evaluate the appropriateness of estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Intangible Assets and Goodwill Stock-Based Compensation Accounting for Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed on March 1, 2019, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.