Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding), our gross research and development expense totaled $8.6 million, or 23.4% of revenue, in 2017 and $9.5 million, or 34.7% of revenue, in 2016. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing cleaning products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position. Intellectual Property Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We control access to and use of our proprietary technologies, software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, consultants, advisors, customers, partners and suppliers. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. All employees and consultants are required to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment and consulting relationships with us. We also require them to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived or made in connection with the employment or consulting relationship. We have aggressively pursued intellectual property since our founding in 1998. We focus our patent efforts in the United States, and, when justified by cost and strategic importance, we file corresponding foreign patent applications in strategic jurisdictions such as the European Union, the PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. Our patent strategy is designed to provide a balance between the need for coverage in our strategic markets and the need to maintain costs at a reasonable level. As of December 31, 2017, we had 20 issued patents and numerous pending applications in the United States. These patents carry expiration dates from 2018 through 2027. Many of the US patents and applications have also been filed internationally, in one or more of the European Union, PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Specifically, we own patents in wafer cleaning, electro-polishing and plating, wafer preparation, and other semiconductor processing technologies. We currently manufacture advanced single-wafer cleaning systems equipped with our SAPS and TEBO technologies. Our wafer cleaning technologies are protected by US Patent Numbers 8580042, 8671961, 9070723 and 9281177, as well as their corresponding international patents. We have 22 patents granted internationally protecting our SAPS technologies. We also have filed four international patent applications for key TEBO technologies in accordance with the Patent Cooperation Treaty, in anticipation of filing in the U.S. national phase. In addition to the above core technologies, we have patents reflecting innovations in other aspects of wafer cleaning systems, such as cleaning solution recycling and wafer holding and positioning. During a wafer cleaning cycle, multiple cleaning solutions may be sequentially used. Our cleaning solution recycling technology prevents cross-contamination and allows recycling of the cleaning solutions. These innovations are protected by US Patent Numbers 6248222, 6495007, 6749728, 6726823, 6447668 and 7136173, as well as their corresponding international patents. 20 Table of Contents We have technologies for stress-free polishing, or SFP, and electrochemical plating, or ECP, that are used in certain of our tools. SFP is an integral part of the CMP process. Our technology was a breakthrough in electro-chemical-copper-planarization technology when it was first introduced, because it can polish, stress-free, oxidizing tantalum barrier layers used in copper low-K interconnects. Our innovations in SFP and ECP are reflected in US Patent Numbers 6395152, 6837984, 6440295, 6638863, 6391166 and 8518224, and their corresponding international counterparts. We also have technologies in other semiconductor processing areas, such as wafer preparation and some specific processing steps. The wafer preparation technology is covered by US Patent Numbers 8383429 and 9295167. The specific processing steps include US Patent Number 7119008 titled Integrating metal layers with ultra-low-K dielectrics, and US Patent Number 8598039 titled Barrier layer removal method and apparatus. To date we have not granted licenses to third parties under the patents described above. Not all of these patents have been implemented in products. We may enter into licensing or cross-licensing arrangements with other companies in the future. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Our customers could become the target of litigation relating to the patent or other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. Additional information about the risks relating to our intellectual property is provided under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Competition The chip equipment industry is characterized by rapid change and is highly competitive throughout the world. We compete with semiconductor equipment companies located around the world, and we may also face competition from new and emerging companies, including new competitors from the PRC. We consider our principal competitors to be those companies that provide single-wafer cleaning products to the market, including Lam Research Corp., DNS Electronics LLC, Tokyo Electron Ltd., SEMES Co. Ltd., Mujin Electronics Co., Ltd. and Beijing Sevenstar Science & Technology Co., Ltd. 21 Table of Contents Compared to our company, our current and potential competitors may have: better established credibility and market reputations, longer operating histories, and broader product offerings; significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which may allow them to pursue design, development, manufacturing, sales, marketing, distribution and service support of their products; more extensive customer and partner relationships, which may position them to identify and respond more successfully to market developments and changes in customer demands; and multiple product offerings, which may enable them to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. The principal competitive factors in our market include: performance of products, including particle removal efficiency, rate of damage to wafer structures, high temperature chemistry, throughput, tool uptime and reliability, safety, chemical waste treatment, and environmental impact; service support capability and spare parts delivery time; innovation and development of functionality and features that are must-haves for advanced fabrication nodes; ability to anticipate customer requirements, especially for advanced process nodes of less than 45nm; ability to identify new process applications; brand recognition and reputation; and skill and capability of personnel, including design engineers, manufacturing engineers and technicians, application engineers, and service engineers. In addition, semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new equipment into semiconductor production lines. Some manufacturers have announced they will fabricate chips for the 10nm node beginning in 2017 and the 7nm node commencing in 2018, and we have one customer that currently is evaluating implementation of our equipment for both the 10nm and 7nm nodes. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular suppliers equipment and qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that selection for that specific production application and technology node as long as the suppliers products demonstrate performance to specification in the installed base. Accordingly, we may experience difficulty in selling to a given manufacturer if that manufacturer has qualified a competitors equipment. If, however, that cleaning equipment constrains chip yield, we expect, based on our experience to date, that the manufacturer will evaluate implementing new equipment that cleans more effectively. We focus on the high-end fabrication market with advanced nodes, and we believe we compete favorably with respect to the factors described above. Most of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products using jet spray technology, which has relatively poor particle removal efficiency for random defects less than 30nm in size and presents increased risk of damage to the fragile patterned architectures of wafers at advanced process nodes. Certain of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products with megasonic cleaning capability, but we believe these products, which use conventional megasonic technology, are unable to maintain energy dose uniformity on the entire wafer and often lack the ability to repeat the requisite uniform energy dose wafer to wafer in production, resulting in poor efficiency in removing random defects, longer processing time and greater loss of material. In addition, these conventional megasonic products generate transient cavitation, which results in more incidents of damage to wafer structures with feature sizes of 70nm or less. We design our cleaning tools equipped with our proprietary SAPS and TEBO technologies, which we believe offer better performance, including at advanced process nodes of 22nm or less. Moreover, with our operations based in Shanghai, we are well positioned to take advantage of the Chinese governments policies to develop an independent domestic semiconductor supply chain. 22 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31 2017, we had 191 full-time equivalent employees, of whom 22 were in administration, 50 were in manufacturing, 80 were in research and development, and 39 were in sales and marketing and customer services. Of these employees, 183 were located in the PRC, 4 were located in Korea and 4 were based in the United States. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization or subject to any collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. I tem 1A. Risk Factors Investing in Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 1. Financial Statements of Part I above, before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred significant losses since our inception and we are uncertain about our future profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in 1998, and as of December 31, 2017 we had an accumulated deficit of $10.0 million. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. We expect our costs to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase. In particular, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: research and development, including continued investments in our research and development team; sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our sales organization, both domestically and internationally, building our brand, and providing our single-wafer wet cleaning equipment and other capital equipment, or tools, for evaluation by customers; the cost of goods being manufactured and sold for our installed base; expansion of field service; and general and administrative expenses, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we are unable to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, then our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our revenue growth does not meet our expectations in future periods, our financial performance may be harmed and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We currently have limited revenue and may not be able to regain or maintain profitability. To date we have only generated limited revenue from sales of our products. Our revenue totaled $27.4 million in 2016 and $36.5 million in 2017. Our revenue was not sufficient to cover our operating expenses prior to 2015, and our net income decreased to $2.4 million in 2016 from $7.9 million in 2015. In 2017 we incurred an operating loss of $0.9 million, as compared to net income of $2.4 million in 2016. Our ability to generate significant revenue and operate profitably depends upon our ability to commercialize our Ultra C single-wafer wet cleaning equipment based on our SAPS and TEBO technologies. Our ability to generate significant product revenue from our current tools or future tool candidates also depends on a number of additional factors, including our ability to: achieve market acceptance of Ultra C equipment based on SAPS technology as well as Ultra C equipment based on TEBO technology; increase our customer base, including the establishment of relationships with companies in the United States; continue to expand our supplier relationships with third parties; and establish and maintain our reputation for providing efficient on-time delivery of high quality products. 23 Table of Contents If we fail to regain and sustain profitability on a continuing basis, we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations or even shut down. We may require additional capital in the future and we cannot give any assurance that such capital will be available at all or available on terms acceptable to us and, if it is available, additional capital raised by us may dilute holders of Class A common stock. We may need to raise funds in the future, depending on many factors, including: our sales growth; the costs of applying our existing technologies to new or enhanced products; the costs of developing new technologies and introducing new products; the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; the costs associated with our expansion, including capital expenditures, increasing our sales and marketing and service and support efforts, and expanding our geographic operations; our ability to continue to obtain governmental subsidies for developmental projects in the future; future debt repayment obligations; and the number and timing of any future acquisitions. To the extent that our existing sources of cash, together with any cash generated from operations, are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funding is not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies and reducing our product development efforts, or to forego acquisition opportunities. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Furthermore, the holders of these new securities or debt may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A common stock. In addition, any preferred equity issuance or debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of Class A common stock. Our quarterly revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, you should not rely upon our past quarterly financial results as indicators of future performance. Any variations in our quarter-to-quarter performance may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by a variety of factors, including: the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and the related impact on the purchase of equipment used in the manufacture of integrated circuits, or chips; the timing of purchases of our tools by chip fabricators, which order types of tools based on multi-year capital plans under which the number and dollar amount of tool purchases can vary significantly from year to year; the relatively high average selling price of our tools and our dependence on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any period, whereby the timing and volume of purchase orders or cancellations from our customers could significantly reduce our revenue for that period; the significant expenditures required to customize our products often exceed the deposits received from our customers; the lead time required to manufacture our tools; 24 Table of Contents the timing of recognizing revenue due to the timing of shipment and acceptance of our tools; our ability to sell additional tools to existing customers; the changes in customer specifications or requirements; the length of our product sales cycle; changes in our product mix, including the mix of systems, upgrades, spare parts and service; the timing of our product releases or upgrades or announcements of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors, including changes in customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; our ability to enhance our tools with new and better functionality that meet customer requirements and changing industry trends; constraints on our suppliers capacity; the timing of investments in research and development related to releasing new applications of our technologies and new products; delays in the development and manufacture of our new products and upgraded versions of our products and the market acceptance of these products when introduced; our ability to control costs, including operating expenses and the costs of the components and subassemblies used in our products; the costs related to the acquisition and integration of product lines, technologies or businesses; and the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, including defending our intellectual property against third-party claims or litigation. Seasonality has played an increasingly important role in the market for chip manufacturing tools. The period of November through February has been a particularly weak period historically for manufacturers of chip tools, in part because capital equipment needed to support manufacturing of chips for the December holidays usually needs to be in the supply chain by no later than October and chip makers in Asia often wait until after Chinese New Year, which occurs in January or February, before implementing their capital acquisition plans. The timing of new product releases also has an impact on seasonality, with the acquisition of manufacturing equipment occurring six to nine months before a new release. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them could cause our operating results to vary widely. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our quarterly revenue accurately. Our results of operations for any quarter may not be indicative of results for future quarters and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Variability in our periodic operating results could lead to volatility in our stock price. Because a substantial proportion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, our results of operations will suffer if revenue falls below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of Class A common stock to decline. Moreover, as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our operating results might not meet our announced guidance or expectations of public market analysts or investors, in which case the price of Class A common stock could decrease significantly. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry is likely to lead to substantial variations in demand for our products, and as a result our operating results could be adversely affected. The chip industry has historically been cyclic and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends upon the capital spending of chip manufacturers, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for chips. During industry downturns, chip manufacturers often have excess manufacturing capacity and may experience reductions in profitability due to lower sales and increased pricing pressure for their products. As a result, chip manufacturers generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenue from our customers, our operating results will suffer and we could experience operating losses. 25 Table of Contents Conversely, during industry upturns we must successfully increase production output to meet expected customer demand. This may require us or our suppliers, including third-party contractors, to order additional inventory, hire additional employees and expand manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to respond to a rapid increase in demand for our tools on a timely basis, or if we misjudge the timing, duration or magnitude of such an increase in demand, we may lose business to our competitors or incur increased costs disproportionate to any gains in revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The PRC government is implementing focused policies, including state-led investment initiatives, that aim to create and support an independent domestic semiconductor supply chain spanning from design to final system production. If these policies, which include loans and subsidies, result in lower demand for equipment than is expected by equipment manufacturers, the resulting overcapacity in the chip manufacturing equipment market could lead to excess inventory and price discounting that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our success will depend on industry chip manufacturers adopting our SAPS and TEBO technologies. To date our strategy for commercializing our tools has been to place them with selected industry leaders in the manufacturing of memory and logic chips, the two largest chip categories, to enable those leading manufacturers to evaluate our technologies, and then leverage our reputation to gain broader market acceptance. In order for these industry leaders to adopt our tools, we need to establish our credibility by demonstrating the differentiated, innovative nature of our SAPS and TEBO technologies. Our SAPS technology has been tested and purchased by industry leaders, but has not achieved, and may never achieve, widespread market acceptance. We have initiated a similar commercialization process for our TEBO technology with a selected group of industry leaders. If these leading manufacturers do not agree that our technologies add significant value over conventional technologies or do not otherwise accept and use our tools, we may need to spend a significant amount of time and resources to enhance our technologies or develop new technologies. Even if these leading manufacturers adopt our technologies, other manufacturers may not choose to accept and adopt our tools and our products may not achieve widespread adoption. Any of the above factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our SAPS and TEBO technologies do not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to compete effectively. The commercial success of our tools will depend, in part, on gaining substantial market acceptance by chip manufacturers. Our ability to gain acceptance for our products will depend upon a number of factors, including: our ability to demonstrate the differentiated, innovative nature of our SAPS and TEBO technologies and the advantages of our tools over those of our competitors; compatibility of our tools with existing or potential customers manufacturing processes and products; the level of customer service available to support our products; and the experiences our customers have with our products. In addition, obtaining orders from new customers may be difficult because many chip manufacturers have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. Chip manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wet processing equipment into a chip production line. Due, in part, to the cost of manufacturing equipment and the investment necessary to integrate a particular manufacturing process, a chip manufacturer that has selected a particular suppliers equipment and qualified that equipment for production typically continues to use that equipment for the specific production application and process node, which is the minimum line width on a chip, as long as that equipment continues to meet performance specifications. Some of our potential and existing customers may prefer larger, more established vendors from which they can purchase equipment for a wider variety of process steps than our tools address. Further, because the cleaning process with our TEBO equipment can be up to five times longer than cleaning processes based on other technologies, we must convince chip manufacturers of the innovative, differentiated nature of our technologies and the benefits associated with using our tools. If we are unable to obtain new customers and continue to achieve widespread market acceptance of our tools, then our business, operations, financial results and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents If we do not continue to enhance our existing single-wafer wet cleaning tools and achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to compete effectively. We operate in an industry that is subject to evolving standards, rapid technological changes and changes in customer demands. Additionally, if process nodes continue to shrink to ever-smaller dimensions and conventional two-dimensional chips reach their critical performance limitations, the technology associated with manufacturing chips may advance to a point where our Ultra C equipment based on SAPS and TEBO technologies becomes obsolete. Accordingly, the future of our business will depend in large part upon the continuing relevance of our technological capabilities, our ability to interpret customer and market requirements in advance of tool deliveries, and our ability to introduce in a timely manner new tools that address chip makers requirements for cost-effective cleaning solutions. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources developing new tools and enhancing existing tools. Our ability to introduce and market successfully any new or enhanced cleaning equipment is subject to a wide variety of challenges during the tools development, including the following: accurate anticipation of market requirements, changes in technology and evolving standards; the availability of qualified product designers and technologies needed to solve difficult design challenges in a cost-effective, reliable manner; our ability to design products that meet chip manufacturers cost, size, acceptance and specification criteria, and performance requirements; the ability and availability of suppliers and third-party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver the critical components and subassemblies of our tools in a timely manner; market acceptance of our customers products, and the lifecycle of those products; and our ability to deliver products in a timely manner within our customers product planning and deployment cycle. Certain enhancements to our Ultra C equipment in future periods may reduce demand for our pre-existing tools. As we introduce new or enhanced cleaning tools, we must manage the transition from older tools in order to minimize disruptions in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older tool inventories and ensure timely delivery of sufficient supplies of new tools to meet customer demand. Furthermore, product introductions could delay purchases by customers awaiting arrival of our new products, which could cause us to fail to meet our expected level of production orders for pre-existing tools. Our success will depend on our ability to identify and enter new product markets. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources identifying new product markets in addition to the market for cleaning solutions and in developing new products for entry into these markets. Our TEBO technology took eight years to develop, and development of any new technology could require a similar, or even longer, period of time. Product development requires significant investments in engineering hours, third-party development costs, prototypes and sample materials, as well as sales and marketing expenses, which will not be recouped if the product launch is unsuccessful. We may fail to predict the needs of other markets accurately or develop new, innovative technologies to address those needs. Further, we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may be more costly to develop, may fail to meet the requirements of the market, or may be adopted slower than we expect. If we are not able to introduce new products successfully, our inability to gain market share in new product markets could adversely affect our ability to sustain our revenue growth or maintain our current revenue levels. If we fail to establish and maintain a reputation for credibility and product quality, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We must develop and maintain a market reputation for innovative, differentiated technologies and high quality, reliable products in order to attract new customers and achieve widespread market acceptance of our products. Our market reputation is critical because we compete against several larger, more established competitors, many of which supply equipment for a larger number of process steps than we do to a broader customer base in an industry with a limited number of customers. In these circumstances, traditional marketing and branding efforts are of limited value, and our success depends on our ability to provide customers with reliable and technically sophisticated products. If the limited customer base does not perceive our products and services to be of high quality and effectiveness, our reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our ability to achieve our targeted growth. 27 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and many of our competitors are larger, better-established, and have significantly greater operating and financial resources than we have. The chip equipment industry is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition throughout the world in each of the markets we serve. Many of our current and potential competitors have, among other things: greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources; established credibility and market reputations; longer operating histories; broader product offerings; more extensive service offerings, including the ability to have large inventories of spare parts available near, or even at, customer locations; local sales forces; and more extensive geographic coverage. These competitors may also have the ability to offer their products at lower prices by subsidizing their losses in wet cleaning with profits from other lines of business in order to retain current or obtain new customers. Among other things, some competitors have the ability to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products. Many of our competitors have more extensive customer and partner relationships than we do and may therefore be in a better position to identify and respond to market developments and changes in customer demands. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. If we are not able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively affected. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There are also a limited number of potential customers for our products. The chip manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, and we derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of our products to a small number of customers. In 2017, 55.2% of our revenue was derived from four customers: SK Hynix Inc., 18.1%; Shanghai Integrated Circuit Research and Development Center Ltd., 14.1%; JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., 12.8% and Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd, 10.2%. In 2016, 99.3% of our revenue was derived from four customers: Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, 33.7%; Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, 25.0%; SK Hynix Inc., 24.0%; and JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., 16.6%. As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customer base, our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate, and any cancellation of orders or any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases or the acceptance of shipped products by our larger customers could materially affect our revenue and results of operations in any quarterly period. We may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue from our larger customers or offset the discontinuation of concentrated purchases by our larger customers with purchases by new or existing customers. We expect a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our results of operations may fluctuate materially as a result of such larger customers buying patterns. Thus, our business success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with our customers. The loss of any of our key customers for any reason, or a change in our relationship with any of our key customers, including a significant delay or reduction in their purchases, may cause a significant decrease in our revenue, which we may not be able to recapture due to the limited number of potential customers. We have seen, and may see in the future, consolidation of our customer base. Industry consolidation generally has negative implications for equipment suppliers, including a reduction in the number of potential customers, a decrease in aggregate capital spending and greater pricing leverage on the part of consumers over equipment suppliers. Continued consolidation of the chip industry could make it more difficult for us to grow our customer base, increase sales of our products and maintain adequate gross margins. 28 Table of Contents Our customers do not enter into long-term purchase commitments, and they may decrease, cancel or delay their projected purchases at any time. In accordance with industry practice, our sales are on a purchase order basis, which we seek to obtain three to four months in advance of the expected product delivery date. Until a purchase order is received, we do not have a binding purchase commitment. Our SAPS and TEBO customers to date have provided us with non-binding one- to two-year forecasts of their anticipated demands, but those forecasts can be changed at any time, without any required notice to us. Because the lead-time needed to produce a tool customized to a customers specifications can extend up to six months, we may need to begin production of tools based on non-binding forecasts, rather than waiting to receive a binding purchase order. No assurance can be made that a customers forecast will result in a firm purchase order within the time period we expect, or at all. If we do not accurately predict the amount and timing of a customers future purchases, we risk expending time and resources on producing a customized tool that is not purchased by a particular customer, which may result in excess or unwanted inventory, or we may be unable to fulfill an order on the schedule required by a purchase order, which would result in foregone sales. Customers may place purchase orders that exceed forecasted amounts, which could result in delays in our delivery time and harm our reputation. In the future a customer may decide not to purchase our tools at all, may purchase fewer tools than it did in the past or may otherwise alter its purchasing patterns, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a small number of large customers. Our customers make major purchases periodically as they add capacity or otherwise implement technology upgrades. If any significant customers cancel, delay or reduce orders, our operating results could suffer. We may incur significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all, due to the costs and length of research, development, manufacturing and customer evaluation process cycles. We often incur significant research and development costs for products that are purchased by our customers only after much, or all, of the cost has been incurred or that may never be purchased. We allow new customers, or existing customers considering new products, to evaluate products without any payment becoming due unless the product is ultimately accepted, which means we may invest $1.0 to $2.0 million in manufacturing a tool that may never be accepted and purchased or may be purchased months or even years after production. In the past we have borrowed money in order to fund first-time purchase order equipment and next-generation evaluation equipment. When we complete a first-time sale, we may not receive payment for up to 24 months. Even returning customers may take as long as six months to make any payments. If our sales efforts are unsuccessful after expending significant resources, or if we experience delays in completing sales, our future cash flow, revenue and profitability may fluctuate or be materially adversely affected. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, which results in variability of our financial performance and may require us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result, all of which could adversely affect our profitability. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of our sales cycle. A sales cycle is the period between initial contact with a prospective customer and any sale of our tools. Our sales process involves educating customers about our tools, participating in extended tool evaluations and configuring our tools to customer-specific needs, after which customers may evaluate the tools. The length of our sales cycle, from initial contact with a customer to the execution of a purchase order, is generally 6 to 24 months. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities and make investments in evaluation equipment, all of which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs or if the sale is delayed as a result of extended qualification processes or delays from our customers customers. The duration or ultimate success of our sales cycle depends on factors such as: efforts by our sales force; the complexity of our customers manufacturing processes and the compatibility of our tools with those processes; our customers internal technical capabilities and sophistication; and our customers capital spending plans and processes, including budgetary constraints, internal approvals, extended negotiations or administrative delays. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale to a potential customer or if we can increase sales to our existing customers. As a result, we may not recognize revenue from our sales efforts for extended periods of time, or at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed. In addition, we believe that the length of the sales cycle and intensity of the evaluation process may increase for those current and potential customers that centralize their purchasing decisions. 29 Table of Contents Difficulties in forecasting demand for our tools may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory items that may not be used. We need to manage our inventory of components and production of tools effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers needs is difficult. Our tool demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, including non-binding forecasts received from our customers years in advance, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. Inventory levels for components necessary to build our tools in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our tools or if our manufacturing partners fail to supply components we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Such shortages might delay production or shipments to customers and may cause us to lose sales. These shortages may also harm our credibility, diminish the loyalty of our channel partners or customers. A failure to prevent inventory shortages or accurately predict customers needs could result in decreased revenue and gross margins and harm our business. Some of our products and supplies may become obsolete or be deemed excess while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications, changes in product structure, components or bills of material as a result of engineering changes, or a decrease in customer demand. We also have exposure to contractual liabilities to our contract manufacturers for inventories purchased by them on our behalf, based on our forecasted requirements, which may become excess or obsolete. Our inventory balances also represent an investment of cash. To the extent our inventory turns are slower than we anticipate based on historical practice, our cash conversion cycle extends and more of our cash remains invested in working capital. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off non-saleable or obsolete inventory. Any such charges we incur in future periods could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenue and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. If our tools contain defects or do not meet customer specifications, we could lose customers and revenue. Highly complex tools such as our may develop defects during the manufacturing and assembly process. We may also experience difficulties in customizing our tools to meet customer specifications or detecting defects during the development and manufacturing of our tools. Some of these failures may not be discovered until we have expended significant resources in customizing our tools, or until our tools have been installed in our customers production facilities. These quality problems could harm our reputation as well as our customer relationships in the following ways: our customers may delay or reject acceptance of our tools that contain defects or fail to meet their specifications; we may suffer customer dissatisfaction, negative publicity and reputational damage, resulting in reduced orders or otherwise damaging our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; we may incur substantial costs as a result of warranty claims or service obligations or in order to enhance the reliability of our tools; the attention of our technical and management resources may be diverted; we may be required to replace defective systems or invest significant capital to resolve these problems; and we may be required to write off inventory and other assets related to our tools. In addition, defects in our tools or our inability to meet the needs of our customers could cause damage to our customers products or manufacturing facilities, which could result in claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims from our customers. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert managements attention from our ongoing operations. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Warranty claims in excess of our estimates could adversely affect our business. We have provided warranties against manufacturing defects of our tools that range from 12 to 36 months in duration. Our product warranty requires us to provide labor and parts necessary to repair defects. To date we have not accrued a significant liability contingency for potential warranty claims. Warranty claims substantially in excess of our expectations, or significant unexpected costs associated with warranty claims, could harm our reputation and could cause customers to decline to place new or additional orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to manufacture significant portions of our tools and our failure to manage our relationships with these parties could harm our relationships with our customers, increase our costs, decrease our sales and limit our growth. Our tools are complex and require components and subassemblies having a high degree of reliability, accuracy and performance. We rely on third parties to manufacture most of the subassemblies and supply most of the components used in our tools. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control could result in shortages or quality assurance problems. These issues could delay shipments of our tools, increase our testing costs or lead to costly failure claims. We do not have long-term supply contracts with some of our suppliers, and those suppliers are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. In addition, we attempt to maintain relatively low inventories and acquire subassemblies and components only as needed. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party suppliers, including: potential price increases; capacity shortages or other inability to meet any increase in demand for our products; reduced control over manufacturing process for components and subassemblies and delivery schedules; limited ability of some suppliers to manufacture and sell subassemblies or parts in the volumes we require and at acceptable quality levels and prices, due to the suppliers relatively small operations and limited manufacturing resources; increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and limited warranties on subassemblies and components supplied to us. Any delays in the shipment of our products due to our reliance on third-party suppliers could harm our relationships with our customers. In addition, any increase in costs due to our suppliers increasing the price they charge us for subassemblies and components or arising from our need to replace our current suppliers that we are unable to pass on to our customers could negatively affect our operating results. Any shortage of components or subassemblies could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us, which could harm our business. The ability of our manufacturers to supply our tools is dependent, in part, upon the availability certain components and subassemblies. Our manufacturers may experience shortages in the availability of such components or subassemblies, which could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us. Any shortage of components or subassemblies or any inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase the costs for our products or impair our ability to ship orders in a timely cost-efficient manner. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and subassemblies, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components and subassemblies used in our tools. Certain components and subassemblies of our tools have only been purchased from our current suppliers to date, and changing the source of those components and subassemblies may result in disruptions during the transition process and entail significant delay and expense. We rely on Product Systems, Inc., or ProSys, as the sole supplier of megasonic transducers, a key subassembly used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment. We also rely on Ninebell Co., Ltd., or Ninebell, which is the principal supplier of robotic delivery system subassemblies used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment. An adverse change to our relationship with ProSys or Ninebell would disrupt our production of single-wafer cleaning equipment and could cause substantial harm to our business. With some of these suppliers, we do not have long-term agreements and instead purchase components and subassemblies through a purchase order process. As a result, these suppliers may stop supplying us components and subassemblies, limit the allocation of supply and equipment to us due to increased industry demand or significantly increase their prices at any time with little or no advance notice. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could also result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and our inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. 31 Table of Contents Moreover, some of our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could prevent them from supplying us with components or subassemblies used in the design and manufacture of our products. In addition, our suppliers, including our sole supplier ProSys, may experience manufacturing delays or shut downs due to circumstances beyond their control, such as labor issues, political unrest or natural disasters. Any supply deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future, experience delays or reductions in supply shipments, which could reduce our revenue and profitability. If key components or materials are unavailable, our costs would increase and our revenue would decline. We have depended on PRC governmental subsidies to help fund our technology development since 2008, and our failure to obtain additional subsidies may impede our development of new technologies and may increase our cost of capital, either of which could make it difficult for us to expand our product base. We received subsidies from local and central governmental authorities in the PRC in 2008, 2009 and 2014. These grants have provided a majority of the funding for our development and commercialization of stress-free polishing and electro copper-plating technologies. If we are unable to obtain similar governmental subsidies for development projects in the future, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements, which could force us to reduce our efforts to develop technologies beyond SAPS and TEBO. To the extent that we receive a lower level of, or no, governmental subsidies in the future, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. The success of our business will depend on our ability to manage any future growth. We have experienced rapid growth in our business recently due, in part, to an expansion of our product offerings and an increase in the number of customers that we serve. For example, our headcount grew by 18.7% during 2016 and by an additional 28.1% during 2017. We will seek to continue to expand our operations in the future, including by adding new offices, locations and employees. Managing our growth has placed and could continue to place a significant strain on our management, other personnel and our infrastructure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, enhance our technological capabilities, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. In addition, any inability to manage our growth effectively could result in operating inefficiencies that could impair our competitive position and increase our costs disproportionately to the amount of growth we achieve. To manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel, service and support personnel and financial and information technology personnel; manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties; and continue to enhance our information technology infrastructure, systems and controls. Our organizational structure has become more complex, and we will need to continue to scale and adapt our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. The continued expansion of our infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and management resources before our revenue increases and without any assurances that our revenue will increase. We are highly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and President and other senior management and key employees , and we currently do not have a permanent Chief Financial Officer. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and continued efforts of our management, technical and sales personnel, including in particular Dr. David H. Wang, our Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President and founder. In January 2018 we notified our former Chief Financial Officer of the termination of his employment effective January 24, 2018. Our Chief Accounting Officer, who joined us effective January 24, 2018, currently is serving as our interim Chief Financial Officer. We are uncertain as to when we will be able to identify and hire a successor Chief Financial Office, and we may incur significant expense in recruiting and hiring such a successor. If one or more of our other senior management were unable or unwilling to continue their employment with us, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner. We may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified replacements. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our senior management may join a competitor or form a competing company. All of our senior management are at-will employees, which means either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of Dr. Wang or other key management personnel, including our former Chief Financial Officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. 32 Table of Contents Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could put us at a competitive disadvantage and prevent us from effectively growing our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. There is substantial competition for experienced management, technical and sales personnel in the chip equipment industry. If qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain for compensation-related or other reasons, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs. New hires may require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity and may not become as productive as we expect. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to utilize certain U.S. and state net operating loss carryforwards may be limited under applicable tax laws. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforward amounts, or NOLs, of $20.1 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $536,000 for U.S. state income tax purposes. The federal and state NOLs will expire at various dates beginning in 2019. Utilization of these NOLs could be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change limitations under U.S. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 and similar U.S. state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation would result in the expiration of the NOLs before utilization. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes , including in connection with our initial public offering and concurrent private placement in November 2017 and any future follow-on public offerings. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change. Regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, may cause our existing NOLs to expire or otherwise become unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Additionally, U.S. state NOLs generated in one state cannot be used to offset income generated in another U.S. state. For these reasons, we may be limited in our ability to realize tax benefits from the use of our NOLs, even if our profitability would otherwise allow for it. Acquisitions that we pursue in the future, whether or not consummated, could result in other operating and financial difficulties. In the future we may seek to acquire additional product lines, technologies or businesses in an effort to increase our growth, enhance our ability to compete, complement our product offerings, enter new and adjacent markets, obtain access to additional technical resources, enhance our intellectual property rights or pursue other competitive opportunities. We may also make investments in certain key suppliers to align our interests with such suppliers. If we seek acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. We cannot readily predict the timing or size of our future acquisitions, or the success of any future acquisitions. To the extent that we consummate acquisitions or investments, we may face financial risks as a result, including increased costs associated with merged or acquired operations, increased indebtedness, economic dilution to gross and operating profit and earnings per share, or unanticipated costs and liabilities. Acquisitions may involve additional risks, including: the acquired product lines, technologies or businesses may not improve our financial and strategic position as planned; we may determine we have overpaid for the product lines, technologies or businesses, or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition have changed; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; we may have difficulty retaining the employees with the technical skills needed to enhance and provide services with respect to the acquired product lines or technologies; the acquisition may be viewed negatively by customers, employees, suppliers, financial markets or investors; we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired product lines or technologies with our existing technologies; we may encounter a competitive response, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; we may become a party to product liability or intellectual property infringement claims as a result of our sale of the acquired companys products; we may incur one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges; we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges; our ongoing business and managements attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; and our due diligence process may fail to identify significant existing issues with the target business. 33 Table of Contents From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which the industry is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of chip manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. With the consolidation of customers within the industry, the chip capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. Global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our tools, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. As a result, economic downturns could cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including: a decline in demand for our products; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. Fluctuating levels of investment by chip manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenue, operating results and earnings. Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which could result in restructuring charges. Even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. We conduct substantially all of our operations outside the United States and face risks associated with conducting business in foreign markets. All of our sales in 2016 and 2017 were made to customers outside the United States. Our manufacturing center has been located in Shanghai, PRC since 2006 and substantially all of our operations are located in the PRC. We expect that all of our significant activities will remain outside the United States in the future. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, including: imposition of, or adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements; the need to comply with the import laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions, including a range of U.S. import laws; potentially adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we conduct business; 34 Table of Contents competition from local suppliers with which potential customers may prefer to do business; seasonal reduction in business activity, such as during Chinese, or Lunar, New Year in parts of Asia and in other periods in various individual countries; increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rates; reduced protection for intellectual property; longer sales cycles and reliance on indirect sales in certain regions; increased length of time for shipping and acceptance of our products; greater difficulty in responding to customer requests for maintenance and spare parts on a timely basis; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our consolidated financial statements; and general economic conditions, geopolitical events or natural disasters in countries where we conduct our operations or where our customers are located, including political unrest, war, acts of terrorism or responses to such events. In particular, the Asian market is extremely competitive, and chip manufacturers may be aggressive in seeking price concessions from suppliers, including chip equipment manufacturers. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country in which we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, a sizable portion of our revenues and costs are denominated in other currencies, primarily the Chinese Renminbi. Because many of our raw material purchases are denominated in Renminbi while the majority of the purchase orders we receive are denominated in U.S. dollars, exchange rates have a significant effect on our gross margin. We have not engaged in any foreign currency exchange hedging transactions to date, and any strategies that we may use in the future to reduce the adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may not be successful. Our foreign currency exposure with respect to assets and liabilities for which we do not have hedging arrangements could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business. Changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to sustain our growth and expansion strategies. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and a substantial majority of our revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant extent by economics, political and legal developments in the PRC. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in the PRC by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, regulating financial services and institutions, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 35 Table of Contents While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In the past the PRC government has implemented measures to control the pace of economic growth, and similar measures in the future may cause decreased economic activity, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Although the PRC government has been implementing policies to develop an independent domestic semiconductor industry supply chain, there is no guaranteed time frame in which these initiatives will be implemented. We cannot guarantee that the implementation of these policies will result in additional revenue to us or that our presence in the PRC will result in support from the PRC government. To the extent that any capital investment or other assistance from the PRC government is not provided to us, it could be used to promote the products and technologies of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export, economic sanctions, and anti-corruption laws and regulations, that may limit our sales opportunities, expose us to liability and increase our costs. Our products are subject to import and export controls in jurisdictions in which we distribute or sell our products. Import and exports control and economic sanctions laws and regulations include restrictions and prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and on our transfer of parts, components, and related technical information and know-how to certain countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. Various countries regulate the importation of certain products through import permitting and licensing requirements and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. The exportation, re-exportation, transfers within foreign countries and importation of our products, including by our partners, must comply with these laws and regulations, and any violations may result in reputational harm, government investigations and penalties, and a denial or curtailment of exporting. Complying with export control and sanctions laws for a particular sale may be time consuming, may increase our costs, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, or similar laws in other jurisdictions, we and the individuals working for us could incur substantial fines and penalties. Changes in export, sanctions or import laws or regulations may delay the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, require us to spend resources to seek necessary government authorizations or to develop different versions of our products, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, regions, governments, persons or entities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining, retaining or directing business. Our exposure for violating these laws and regulations increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. Breaches of our cybersecurity systems could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products to our customers, result in data losses and the theft of our intellectual property, damage our reputation, and require us to incur significant additional costs to maintain the security of our networks and data. We increasingly depend upon our information technology systems to conduct our business operations, ranging from our internal operations and product development and manufacturing activities to our marketing and sales efforts and communications with our customers and business partners. Computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security, or that of our website, and misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions of our service. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions to third-party contractors, including our manufacturers, and our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of our contractors own cybersecurity measures. Accordingly, if our cybersecurity systems and those of our contractors fail to protect against unauthorized access, sophisticated cyberattacks and the mishandling of data by our employees and contractors, our ability to conduct our business effectively could be damaged in a number of ways, including sensitive data regarding our employees or business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data, could be stolen. Should this occur, we could be subject to significant claims for liability from our customers and regulatory actions from governmental agencies. In addition, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could be compromised and our reputation and competitive position could be significantly harmed. Consequently, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, floods tsunami, typhoons and volcanic activity, environmental disasters, health epidemics, and other events beyond our control such as power loss, telecommunications failures, and uncertainties arising out of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks. A substantial majority of our facilities as well as our research and development personnel are located in the PRC. Any catastrophic loss or significant damage to any of our facilities would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, and adversely affect our product development schedules, shipments and revenue. In addition, any such catastrophic loss or significant damage could result in significant expense to repair or replace the facility and could significantly curtail our research and development efforts in a particular product area or primary market, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and operating results. Our management and auditors identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements that could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Neither we nor BDO China Shu Lun Pan Certified Public Accountants LLP, or BDO China, our independent registered public accounting firm, has performed a comprehensive assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as defined by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, for purposes of identifying and reporting material weaknesses and other control deficiencies. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and therefore are not required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Further, BDO China has not been engaged to express, nor has it expressed, an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with its audit of our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2016, BDO China informed us that it had identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our lack of sufficient qualified financial reporting and accounting personnel with an appropriate level of expertise to properly address complex accounting issues under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, and to prepare and review our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures to fulfill GAAP and SEC financial reporting requirements. As of December 31, 2017, we considered we were still in a transitional period to enhance the quality of our accounting and financial reporting function, we determined that the above mentioned material weakness had not been fully remediated. We have taken, and are continuing to take, remedial measures to improve the effectiveness of our controls, including by hiring additional accounting and finance personnel and by engaging outside consulting firms, although we now are also seeking to identify a qualified candidate to succeed our former Chief Financial Officer whose employment terminated effective January 24, 2018. The existence of material weaknesses is an indication that there is a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a future period, and the process of designing and implementing effective internal