Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this report and our final prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2017 pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in the section titled Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part II. In this discussion, we use financial measures that are considered non-GAAP financial measures under Securities and Exchange Commission rules. These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is included elsewhere in this report. Investors should not consider non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from or in substitution for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Overview We develop, manufacture and sell single-wafer wet cleaning equipment, which semiconductor manufacturers can use in numerous manufacturing steps to remove particles, contaminants and other random defects, and thereby improve product yield, in fabricating advanced integrated circuits, or chips. Our Ultra C equipment is designed to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging a wafer or its features, even at an increasingly advanced process node (the minimum line width on a chip) of 22 nanometers, or nm, or less. Our equipment is based on our innovative, proprietary Space Alternated Phase Shift, or SAPS, and Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation, or TEBO, technologies. We developed our proprietary technologies to enable manufacturers to produce chips that reach their ultimate physical limitations while maintaining product yield, which is the percentage of chips on a wafer that meet manufacturing specifications In November 2017 we issued and sold 2,233,000 shares of Class A common stock in our initial public offering, or IPO. Of the shares sold in the IPO, 2,000,000 were sold upon completion of the IPO on November 7, 2017 and 233,000 shares were sold on November 14, 2017 upon exercise of an over-allotment option granted to the underwriters of the IPO. In addition, on November 7, 2017, following the completion of the IPO, we issued and sold 1,333,334 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to two investors, which we refer to as the concurrent private placement. All of the 3,566,334 shares of Class A common stock issued in the IPO and the concurrent private placement were sold at a price of $5.60 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $20.0 million. We received $16.5 million in net proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent private placement, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, placement fees, and offering costs. Minority Interests in Our Operating Company We conduct our business operations principally through ACM Shanghai, a subsidiary of ACM Research. Until August 31, 2017 ACM Research owned 62.87% of the outstanding equity interests in ACM Shanghai. Three third-party investors based in the Peoples Republic of China, or PRC, held the remaining 37.13% of the ACM Shanghai equity interests, which are reflected as non-controlling interests in our consolidated balance sheets. On August 31, 2017 we acquired an additional 18.77% of the ACM equity interests, increasing our ownership of ACM equity interests to 81.64%. On that date, Shanghai Science and Technology Venture Capital Co., Ltd. contemporaneously sold to ACM Research, for an aggregate price of $6.2 million, its 18.77% equity interests in ACM Shanghai and purchased from ACM Research, for an aggregate price of $5.8 million, shares of Series E preferred stock that converted, upon completion of the IPO, into 1,666,170 shares of Class A common stock, for an effective purchase price of $3.48 per share. Under PRC regulations, each of the two remaining minority investors could sell its ACM Shanghai equity interests only by means of an auction process. In September 2017 each of the two minority investors commenced an auction process for the sale of its ACM Shanghai equity interests and, pursuant to securities purchase agreements entered into by ACM Research and each of the minority investors in August 2017, ACM Research submitted auction bids for the ACM Shanghai equity interests held by the two minority investors. In October 2017 ACM 25 Table of Contents Research was advised that its bids for the minority ACM Shanghai equity interests had won both auctions and that the sales of the minority interests would be completed by no later than December 31, 2017: Shanghai Pudong High-Tech Investment Co., Ltd. will sell 10.78% of the ACM Shanghai equity interests to ACM Research for an aggregate price of $8.4 million. Its subsidiary Pudong Science and Technology (Cayman) Co., Ltd., pursuant to one of the August 2017 securities purchase agreements, had purchased from ACM Research on September 8, 2017 a total of 1,119,576 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $7.50 per share, representing an aggregate price of $8.4 million. Shanghai Zhangjiang Science & Technology Venture Capital Co., Ltd. will sell 7.58% of the ACM Shanghai equity interests to ACM Research for an aggregate price of $5.9 million. Its subsidiary Zhangjiang AJ Company Limited, pursuant to an August 2017 securities purchase agreement, purchased from ACM Research on September 8, 2017 a total of 787,098 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $7.50 per share, representing an aggregate price of $5.9 million. Upon completion of the two auction processes in the fourth quarter of 2017, ACM will own all of the outstanding equity interests of ACM Shanghai. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We develop, manufacture and sell single-wafer wet cleaning equipment and custom-made wafer assembly and packaging equipment. Because we currently sell our capital equipment, or tools, to a small number of customers and we customize those tools to fulfill the customers specific requirements, our revenue generation fluctuates, depending on the length of the sales, development and evaluation phases: Sales and Development . During the sale process we may, depending on a prospective customers specifications and requirements, need to perform additional research, development and testing to establish that a tool can meet the prospective customers requirements. We then host an in-house demonstration of the customized tool prototype. Sales cycles for orders that require limited customization and do not require that we develop new technology usually take from 6 to 12 months, while the product life cycle, including the initial design, demonstration and final assembly phases, for orders requiring development and testing of new technologies can take as long as 2 to 4 years. As we expand our customer base, we expect to gain more repeat purchase orders for tools that we have already developed and tested, which will eliminate the need for a demonstration phase and shorten the development cycle. Evaluation Periods . When a chip manufacturer proposes to purchase a particular type of tool from us for the first time, we offer the manufacturer an opportunity to evaluate the tool for a period that can extend for 24 months or longer. We do not receive any payment on first-time purchases until the tool is accepted. As a result, we may spend between $1.0 and $2.0 million to produce a tool without receiving payment for more than 24 months or, if the tool is not accepted, without receiving any payment. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryWe may incur significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all, due to the costs and length of research, development, manufacturing and customer evaluation process cycles in Part II below. Purchase Orders . In accordance with industry practice, sales of our tools are made pursuant to purchase orders. Each purchase order from a customer for one of our tools contains specific technical requirements intended to ensure, among other things, that the tool will be compatible with the customers manufacturing process line. Until a purchase order is received, we do not have a binding purchase commitment. Our SAPS and TEBO customers to date have provided us with non-binding one- to two-year forecasts of their anticipated demands, and we expect future customers to furnish similar non-binding forecasts for planning purposes. Any of those forecasts would be subject to change, however, by the customer at any time, without notice to us. Fulfillment . We seek to obtain a purchase order for a tool from three to four months in advance of the expected delivery date. Depending upon the nature of a customers specifications, the lead time for production of a tool generally will extend from two to four months. The lead-time can be as long as six months, however, and in some cases we may need to begin producing a tool based on a customers non-binding forecast, rather than waiting to receive a binding purchase order. 26 Table of Contents We expect our sales prices generally to range between $2.5 million and $5.0 million for SAPS tools and between $3.5 million and $6.5 million for TEBO tools. The sales price of a particular tool will vary depending upon the required specifications. We have designed equipment models using a modular configuration that we customize to meet customers technical specifications. For example, our Ultra C models for SAPS and TEBO solutions use modular configurations that enable us to create a wet-cleaning tool meeting a customers specific requirements, while using pre-existing designs for chamber, electrical, chemical delivery and other modules. Because of the relatively large purchase prices of our tools, customers generally pay in installments. For a customers repeat purchase of a particular type of tool, the specific payment terms are negotiated in connection with acceptance of a purchase order. Based on our limited experience with repeat sales of SAPS and TEBO tools, we expect that we will receive an initial payment upon delivery of a tool in connection with a repeat purchase, with the balance being paid once the tool has been tested and accepted by the customer. Our sales arrangements for repeat purchases do not include a general right of return. Since introducing SAPS technology in 2009, we have focused on selling SAPS-based tools and, beginning in 2016, TEBO-based tools. Our revenue from sales of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment totaled $14.8 million, or 76.8% of our revenue, in the nine months of 2017 (compared with $5.8 million, or 44.6% of revenue, in the first nine months of 2016), $21.5 million, or 78.4% of our revenue, in 2016 and $26.8 million, or 86.0% of our revenue, in 2015. We have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers as the result of our strategy of initially placing SAPS- and TEBO-based equipment with a small number of leading chip manufacturers that are driving technology trends and key capability implementation. In 2016 99.3% of our revenue was derived from four customers: Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, which accounted for 33.7% of our revenue; Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 25.0% of our revenue; SK Hynix Inc., which accounted for 24.0% of our revenue; and JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 16.6% of our revenue. In 2015 all of our revenue was derived from three customers, including SK Hynix Inc., which accounted for 86.0% of our revenue, and JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co., Ltd., which accounted for 10.1% of our revenue. Based on our market experience, we believe that implementation of our equipment by one of our selected leading companies will attract and encourage other manufacturers to evaluate our equipment, because the leading companys implementation will serve as validation of our equipment and will enable the other manufacturers to shorten their evaluation processes. We placed our first SAPS-based tool in 2009 as a prototype. We worked closely with the customer for two years in debugging and modifying the tool, and the customer then spent two more years of qualification and running pilot production before beginning volume manufacturing. Our revenue in 2015 included sales of SAPS-based tools following the customers completion of its qualification process. We expect that the period from new product introduction to high volume manufacturing will be three years or less in the future. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsBusinessWe depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There are also a limited number of potential customers for our products in Part II below. All of our sales in 2015, 2016 and the first nine months of 2017 were to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue will continue to come from customers located in this region for the near future. We have increased our sales efforts to penetrate the markets in North America and Western Europe. We recognize revenue in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, as described below under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesRevenue Recognition. We offer extended maintenance service contracts to provide services such as trouble-shooting or fine-tuning tools, and installing spare parts, following expiration of applicable initial warranty coverage periods, which for sales to date have extended from 12 to 36 months as described under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesWarranty. A limited number of the single-wafer wet cleaning tools we have sold to date are no longer covered by their initial warranties. In 2015, 2016 and the first nine months of 2017, we received payments for parts and labor for service activities provided from time to time, but as of September 30, 2017 we had 27 Table of Contents not yet entered into extended maintenance service contracts with respect to any of the tools for which initial warranty coverage had expired. We expect to enter into extended maintenance service contracts with customers as additional initial warranties expire, but we do not expect revenue from extended maintenance service contracts to represent a material portion of our revenue in the future. The loss or delay of one or more large sale transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed, as described under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryOur quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of Class A common stock in Part II below. It is difficult to predict accurately when, or even if, we can complete a sale of a tool to a potential customer or to increase sales to any existing customer. Our tool demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, including non-binding forecasts received from customers years in advance, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our tools make it difficult for us to project future operating results and may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory or on tools that may not be purchased, as further described in Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryDifficulties in forecasting demand for our tools may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory items that may not be used in Part II below. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for capital equipment consists primarily of: direct costs, which consist principally of costs of tool components and subassemblies purchased from third-party vendors; compensation of personnel associated with our manufacturing operations, including stock-based compensation (SBC); depreciation of manufacturing equipment; amortization of costs of software used for manufacturing purposes; other expenses attributable to our manufacturing department; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. We are not party to any long-term purchasing agreements with suppliers. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryOur customers do not enter into long-term purchase commitments, and they may decrease, cancel or delay their projected purchases at any time in Part II below. As our customer base and tool installations continue to grow, we will need to hire additional manufacturing personnel. The rates at which we add customers and install tools will affect the level and time of this spending. In addition, because we often import components and spare parts from the United States, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, the effect of the dollars growth on our cost of revenue. Gross Margin Our gross margin was 41.7% in the first nine months of 2017 (compared with 44.1% in the first nine months of 2016), 48.7% in 2016 and 45.3% in 2015. Gross margin may vary from period to period, primarily related to the level of utilization and the timing and mix of purchase orders. We expect gross margin to be between 40% and 45% for the foreseeable future, with direct manufacturing costs approximating 50% to 55% of revenue and overhead costs totaling approximately 5% of revenue. We seek to maintain our gross margin by continuing to develop proprietary technologies that avoid pricing pressure for our wet cleaning equipment. We actively manage our operations through principles of operational excellence designed to ensure continuing improvement in the efficiency and quality of our manufacturing operations by, for example, implementing factory constraint management and change control and inventory management systems. In addition, our purchasing department actively seeks to identify and negotiate supply contracts with improved pricing to reduce cost of revenue. 28 Table of Contents A significant portion of our raw materials are denominated in Renminbi, or RMB, while the majority of our purchase orders are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, currency exchange rates may have a significant effect on our gross margin. For further information, please see Exchange Rate Information. Operating Expenses We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the dollar amount of our operating expenses, as we make investments to support the anticipated growth of our customer base and the continued development of proprietary technologies. As we continue to grow our business, we expect operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense accounted for 18.7% of our revenue in the first nine months of 2017 (compared with 19.4% of revenue in the first nine months of 2016), 14.3% of our revenue in 2016 and 13.5% of our revenue in 2015. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of: compensation of personnel associated with pre- and after-sales support and other sales and marketing activities, including stock-based compensation; sales commissions paid to independent sales representatives; fees paid to sales consultants; shipping and handling costs for transportation of products to customers; warranty costs; cost of trade shows; travel and entertainment; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. Sales and marketing expense can be significant and may fluctuate, in part because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of our sales cycle. The length of our sales cycle, from initial contact with a customer to the execution of a purchase order, is generally 6 to 24 months. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities, including educating customers about our tools, participating in extended tool evaluations and configuring our tools to customer-specific needs. Sales and marketing expense in a given period can be particularly affected by the increase in travel and entertainment expenses associated with the finalization of purchase orders or the installation of tools. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in sales and marketing by hiring additional employees and expanding marketing programs in existing or new markets. We must invest in sales and marketing processes in order to develop and maintain close relationships with customers. We are making dollar-based investments in dollars in order to support growth of our customer base in the United States, and the relative strength of the dollar could have a significant effect on our sales and marketing expense. Research and Development Research and development expense accounted for 15.9% of our revenue in the first nine months of 2017 (compared with 17.7% of revenue in the first nine months of 2016), 11.9% of our revenue in 2016 and 9.4% of our revenue in 2015. Research and development expense relates to the development of new products and processes and encompasses our research, development and customer support activities. Research and development expense consists primarily of: 29 Table of Contents compensation of personnel associated with our research and development activities, including stock based compensation; costs of components and other research and development supplies; travel expense associated with customer support; amortization of costs of software used for research and development purposes; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. Some of our research and development has been funded by grants from the PRC government, as described in PRC Government Research and Development Funding below. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars and will range between 10% and 12% of revenue, as we continue to invest in research and development to advance our technologies. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing single-wafer wet cleaning products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position. General and Administrative General and administrative expense accounted for 22.9% of our revenue in the first nine months of 2017 (compared with 13.0% of revenue in the first nine months of 2016), 9.8% of our revenue in 2016 and 6.7% of our revenue in 2015. General and administrative expense consists primarily of: compensation of executive, accounting and finance, human resources, information technology, and other administrative personnel, including stock-based compensation; professional fees, including accounting and legal fees; other corporate expenses; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars, as we incur additional costs associated with growing our business and operating as a public company. Stock-Based Compensation Expense We grant stock options to employees and non-employee consultants and directors, and we accounts for those stock-based awards in accordance with the FASBs ASC Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation and ASC Subtopic 505-50, Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees . Stock-based awards granted to employees are measured at the fair value of the awards on the grant date and are recognized as expenses either (a) immediately on grant, if no vesting conditions are required, or (b) using the graded vesting method, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense, when recognized, is charged to cost of revenue or to the category of operating expense corresponding to the employees service function. Stock-based awards granted to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the awards at the earlier of (a) the date at which a commitment for performance by the non-employee to earn the awards is reached and (b) the date at which the non-employees performance is complete. The fair value of such non-employee awards is re-measured at each reporting date using the fair value at each period end until the vesting date. Changes in fair value between the reporting dates are recognized by the graded vesting method. 30 Table of Contents Cost of revenue and operating expenses during the periods presented below have included stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in thousands) Stock-Based Compensation Expense: Cost of revenue $ 5 $ 3 $ 15 $ 8 Sales and marketing expense 17 1 35 4 Research and development expense 13 1 38 4 General and administrative expense 308 (5 ) 1,604 177 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 343 $ 0 $ 1,692 $ 193 We recognized stock-based compensation expense to employees of $72,000 in the third quarter of 2017 (compared to $23,000 in the third quarter of 2016), $200,000 in the first nine months of 2017 (compared to $68,000 in the first nine months of 2016), $92,000 in 2016 and $73,000 in 2015. As of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and 2015, there was $712,000, $726,000 and $299,000 of total unrecognized employee share-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to unvested share-based awards, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.92 years, 2.25 years and 1.24 years, respectively. We recognized stock-based compensation expense to non-employees of $272,000 in the third quarter of 2017 (compared to ($23,000) in the third quarter of 2016), $1.5 million in the first nine months of 2017 (compared to $125,000 in the first nine months of 2016), $291,000 in 2016 and $350,000 in 2015. The fair value of each option granted to a non-employee is re-measured at each period end until the vesting date. PRC Government Research and Development Funding ACM Shanghai has received three grants from local and central governmental authorities in the PRC. The first grant, which was awarded in 2008, relates to the development and commercialization of 65nm to 45nm stress-free polishing technology. The second grant was awarded in 2009 to fund interest expense on short-term borrowings. The most recent grant was made in 2014 and relates to the development of electro copper-plating technology. PRC governmental authorities provide the majority of the funding, although ACM Shanghai is also required to invest certain amounts in the projects. The PRC governmental grants contain certain operating conditions, and we are required to go through a government due diligence process once the project is complete. The grants therefore are recorded as long-term liabilities upon receipt, although we are not required to return any funds we receive. Grant amounts are recognized in our statements of operations and comprehensive income as follows: Government subsidies relating to current expenses are reflected as reductions of those expenses in the periods in which they are reported. Those reductions totaled $757,000 in the third quarter of 2017 (compared to $3.5 million in the third quarter of 2016), $2.8 million in the first nine months of 2017 (compared to $5.5 million in the first nine months of 2016), $6.2 million in 2016 and $3.8 million in 2015. Government subsidies for interest on short-term borrowings are reported as reductions of interest expense in the periods the interest is accrued. Those reductions totaled $0 in the third quarter of 2017 (compared to an increase of $1,000 in the third quarter of 2016), $0 in the first nine months of 2017 (compared to $100,000 in the first nine months of 2016), $99,000 in 2016 and $303,000 in 2015. Government grants used to acquire depreciable assets are transferred from long-term liabilities to property, plant and equipment when the assets are acquired and then the recorded amounts of the assets are credited to other income over the useful lives of the assets. Related government subsidies recognized as other income totaled $34,000 in the third quarter of 2017 (compared to $30,000 in the third quarter of 2016), $99,000 in the first nine months of 2017 (compared to $93,000 in the first nine months of 2016), $127,000 in 2016 and $105,000 in 2015. 31 Table of Contents Net Income Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests Since 2006 we have conducted our business through our subsidiary ACM Shanghai, and we have financed our operations in part through sale of minority equity interests in ACM Shanghai. From January 1, 2015 to August 31, 2017, ACM Research owned 62.87% of the equity interests of ACM Shanghai and three non-controlling, unrelated investors held the remaining 37.13%. As described above under Minority Interests in Our Operating Company, ACM Research (a) acquired an additional 18.77% of the ACM Shanghai equity interests from one of the minority investors as of August 31, 2017 and (b) entered into agreements with the other two minority investors pursuant to which it will acquire the remaining minority equity interests in the fourth quarter of 2017. How We Evaluate Our Operations We present information below with respect to three measures of financial performance: We define adjusted EBITDA as our net income excluding interest expense (net), income tax benefit (expense), depreciation and amortization, and stock-based compensation. We define adjusted EBITDA to also exclude restructuring costs, although we have not incurred any such costs to date. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment (net of proceeds from disposals) and of intangible assets. We define adjusted operating income (loss) as our income (loss) from operations excluding stock-based compensation. These financial measures are not based on any standardized methodologies prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, and are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. We have presented adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and adjusted operating income (loss) because they are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. We believe that these financial measures help identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we exclude. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating income (loss) can provide useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance and that the exclusion of property and equipment purchases from operating cash flow can provide a usual means to gauge our capability to generate cash. Accordingly, we believe that these financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allowing for greater transparency with respect to key financial metrics used by our management in its financial and operational decision-making. Adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and adjusted operating income (loss) are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of adjusted EBITDA rather than net income (loss), which is the nearest GAAP equivalent. Some of these limitations are: adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated or amortized may have to be replaced in the future; the assets being depreciated or amortized may have to be replaced in the future; we exclude stock-based compensation expense from adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating income (loss), although (a) it has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy and (b) if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, the cash salary expense included in operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position; 32 Table of Contents the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from adjusted EBITDA when they report their operating results; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest expense, or the requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on debt; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax expense (benefit) or the cash requirements to pay taxes; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; although depreciation and amortization charges are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and adjusted EBITDA includes expense reductions and non-operating other income attributable to PRC governmental grants, which may mask the effect of underlying developments in net income (loss), including trends in current expenses and interest expense, and free cash flow includes the PRC governmental grants, the amount and timing of which can be difficult to predict and are outside our control. The following table reconciles net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in thousands) Adjusted EBITDA Data: Net income (loss) $ (1,282 ) $ 561 $ (4,237 ) $ (468 ) Interest expense, net 31 60 190 105 Income tax expense (benefit) (278 ) 132 471 59 Depreciation and amortization 65 46 183 134 Stock-based compensation 343 0 1,692 193 Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,121 ) $ 799 $ (1,701 ) $ 23 Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected an increase of $1.1 million in non-GAAP operating expenses and a decrease of $621,000 in gross profit. Adjusted EBITDA in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected an increase of $3.2 million in non-GAAP operating expenses and an increase of $1.0 million in other non-operating expenses, substantially offset by an increase of $2.4 million in gross profit. We do not exclude from adjusted EBITDA expense reductions and non-operating other income attributable to PRC governmental grants because we consider and incorporate the expected amounts and timing of those grants in incurring expenses and capital expenditures. If we did not receive the grants, our cash expenses therefore would be lower, and our cash position would not be affected, to the extent we have accurately anticipated the amounts of the grants. For additional information regarding our PRC grants, please see Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding. 33 Table of Contents The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in thousands) Free Cash Flow Data: Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (7,644 ) $ (1,770 ) $ (4,661 ) $ 2,969 Purchase of property and equipment, net of proceeds from disposal (123 ) (75 ) (149 ) (177 ) Purchase of intangible assets (1 ) (13 ) (37 ) (22 ) Free cash flow $ (7,768 ) $ (1,858 ) $ (4,847 ) $ 2,778 Free cash flow in the third quarter ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected, in addition to the factors driving net cash provided by operating activities, (a) decreases in accounts receivable offset by increases in accounts payable and (b) increases in stock-based compensation. Free cash flow in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected, in addition to the factors driving net cash provided by operating activities, (a) decreases in accounts receivable offset by increases in accounts payable and (b) increases in stock-based compensation. Consistent with our methodology for calculating adjusted EBITDA, we do not adjust free cash flow for the effects of PRC government subsidies, because we take those subsidies into account in incurring expenses and capital expenditures. Adjusted operating income (loss) excludes stock-based compensation from income (loss) from operations. Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, determining the fair value of certain of the stock-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related stock-based awards. Furthermore, unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options, which is an element of our ongoing stock-based compensation expense, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control. Management believes it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. The use of non-GAAP financial measures excluding stock-based compensation has limitations, however. If we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, the cash salary expense included in operating expenses would be higher and our cash holdings would be less. The following tables reflect the exclusion of stock-based compensation from line items comprising income (loss) from operations: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) (in thousands) Adjusted Operating Income (Loss): Revenue $ 4,891 $ $ 4,891 $ 4,904 $ $ 4,904 Cost of revenue 2,692 5 2,687 1,989 3 1,986 Gross profit 2,199 5 2,204 2,915 3 2,918 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1,036 ) 17 (1,019 ) (709 ) 1 (708 ) Research and development (1,209 ) 13 (1,196 ) (813 ) 1 (812 ) General and administrative (1,264 ) 308 (956 ) (605 ) (5 ) (610 ) Income (loss) from operations $ (1,310 ) $ 343 $ (967 ) $ 788 $ 0 $ 788 34 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) (in thousands) Adjusted Operating Income (Loss): Revenue $ 19,314 $ $ 19,314 $ 13,026 $ $ 13,026 Cost of revenue 11,262 15 11,247 7,281 8 7,273 Gross profit 8,052 15 8,067 5,745 8 5,753 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (3,619 ) 35 (3,584 ) (2,527 ) 4 (2,523 ) Research and development (3,076 ) 38 (3,038 ) (2,299 ) 4 (2,295 ) General and administrative (4,422 ) 1,604 (2,818 ) (1,694 ) 177 (1,517 ) Income (loss) from operations $ (3,065 ) $ 1,692 $ (1,373 ) $ (775 ) $ 193 $ (582 ) Adjusted operating loss in the third quarter ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected an increase of $343,000 in stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted operating loss in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared with the comparable period in 2016, reflected an increase of $1.5 million in stock-based compensation expense. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on-going basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition We utilize the guidance set forth in the FASBs ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition , regarding the recognition, presentation and disclosure of revenue in our financial statements. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has occurred and the major risks and remunerations of ownership have been transferred to the customer; collectability is probable; and the selling price is fixed or determinable. In general, we recognize revenue when a tool has been demonstrated to meet the customers predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue as of the earlier of the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period and customer acceptance. In the following circumstances, however, we recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery, when legal title to the tool is passed to a customer as follows: when the customer has previously accepted the same type of tool with the same specifications and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria; when the sales contract or purchase order does not contain an acceptance agreement or a lapsing acceptance provision and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria; when the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications; or when our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. 35 Table of Contents Customization, production, installation and delivery are essential elements of the functionality of our delivered tools, but the related services we offer, principally warranty services, are not essential to tool functionality. We treat the customization, production, installation and delivery of tools, together with the provision of related warranty and other services, as a single unit of accounting in accordance with the FASBs ASC Subtopic 605-25, Revenue RecognitionMultiple Element Arrangements. In the first nine months of 2017 and in 2016 and 2015 all of our tools were sold in stand-alone arrangements. We offer post-warranty period services, which consist principally of the installation and replacement of parts and small-scale modifications to the equipment. The related revenue and costs of revenue are recognized when parts have been delivered and installed, risk of loss has passed to the customer, and collection is probable. We do not expect revenue from extended maintenance service contracts to represent a material portion of our revenue in the future. Stock-Based Compensation We account for grants of stock options based on their grant date fair value and recognize compensation expense over the vesting periods. We estimate the fair value of stock options as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation over their vesting terms. Stock-based compensation expense represents the cost of the grant date fair value of employee stock option grants recognized over the requisite service period of the awards (usually the vesting period) on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including (a) the risk-free interest rate, (b) the expected volatility of our stock, (c) the expected term of the award and (d) the expected dividend yield. The risk-free interest rates for periods within the expected life of the option are based on the yields of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Due to the lack of a public market for the trading of the Class A common stock and a lack of company-specific historical and implied volatility data, we have based our estimate of expected volatility on the historical volatility of a group of similar companies that are publicly traded. For these analyses, we have selected companies with comparable characteristics to ours including enterprise value, risk profile, position within the industry, and with historical share price information sufficient to meet the expected life of the stock-based awards. We have computed the historical volatility data using the daily closing prices for the selected companies shares during the equivalent period of the calculated expected term of our stock-based awards. We will continue to apply this process until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of the price for Class A common stock becomes available. The expected term represents the period of time that options are expected to be outstanding. The expected term of stock options is based on the average between the vesting period and the contractual term for each grant according to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110. The expected dividend yield is assumed to be 0%, based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no present intention to pay cash dividends. No stock options were granted to employees during the three months ended September 30, 2017 or the nine months ended September 30, 2016. For employee stock option grants made during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of those grants were as follows: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 Risk-free interest rate 2.22 % Expected volatility 29.18 % Expected term (in years) 6.25 Expected dividend yield 0 % 36 Table of Contents No stock options were granted to non-employees during the three months ended September 30, 2017 or the nine months ended September 30, 2016. For non-employee stock option grants made during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of those grants were as follows: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 Risk-free interest rate 2.22% - 2.43 % Expected volatility 29.18% - 29.51 % Expected term (in years) 6.25 Expected dividend yield 0 % The following table summarizes by grant date the number of shares of common stock underlying stock options granted from January 1, 2016 through September 30, 2017, as well as the associated per share exercise price and the estimated fair value per share of common stock on the grant date: Grant Dates Number of Common Shares Underlying Options Granted Exercise Price per Common Share Estimated Fair Value per Common Share December 28, 2016 1,424,596 3.00 2.28 March 9, 2017 33,334 7.50 7.50 May 9, 2017 183,335 7.50 7.50 As of September 30, 2017, the unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding options was $712,000 and is expected to be recognized as expense over a weighted-average of 1.92 years. As of September 30, 2017, we had outstanding stock options to acquire an aggregate of 3,275,899 shares of Class A common stock with an intrinsic value of $7.8 million. Of those outstanding options, (a) 1,589,696 shares had vested, representing an intrinsic value of $2.3 million and (b) 1,686,203 shares were unvested, representing an intrinsic value of $5.5 million. Determination of Fair Value of Common Stock Prior to the pricing of the IPO on November 2, 2017, we were required to estimate the fair value of Class A common stock underlying our stock-based awards when performing fair value calculations. All options to purchase shares of Class A common stock are intended to be granted with an exercise price per share no less than the fair value per share of the Class A common stock underlying those options on the date of grant, based on the information known to us on the date of grant. In the absence of a public trading market for the Class A common stock, on each grant date we developed an estimate of the fair value of the common stock with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist to determine an exercise price for the option grants. We historically granted stock options at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the Class A common stock as of the date of grant, as determined by the board of directors with input from management. Prior to the pricing of the IPO, the board determined the fair value of the Class A common stock by considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including our financial performance and projections, the relative illiquidity of the Class A common stock, the pricing of sales of convertible preferred stock to third parties, the preferences of our outstanding convertible preferred stock as compared to the Class A common stock, including the liquidation preferences and dividend rights, peer group trading multiples, and trends in the broad semiconductor equipment market. On December 28, 2016, March 9, 2017 and May 9, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors, acting with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist, considered the fair value of the Class A common stock. In considering the fair value, the compensation committee took into account the methodologies, approaches and assumptions provided by the Audit and Accounting Practice Aid Series: Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , or the Practice Aid. There are significant judgments and estimates inherent in the compensation committees determination of the fair value of the Class A common stock. These judgments and estimates include assumptions regarding our future operating performance, the time to completing the IPO or other liquidity event, and the determination of the appropriate valuation methods. If we had made different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense, net loss and net loss per common share could have been significantly different. 37 Table of Contents On December 28, 2016, March 9, 2017 and May 9, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors considered the fair value of the Class A common stock. In considering the fair value, the compensation committee took into account the methodologies, approaches and assumptions provided by the Practice Aid. In accordance with the Practice Aid, the compensation committee considered the various methods for allocating the enterprise value across the classes and series of capital stock to determine the fair value of our common stock at each valuation date. The compensation committee considered, but did not use, the liquidation value, single period capitalization, excess earnings, comparative transaction, capital market and discounted cash flow methods. In light of our placement and sale of Series F preferred stock in December 2016, on December 28, 2016 the compensation committee applied the company transaction method, which uses the most recent negotiated arms-length transactions involving the sale or transfer of stock or other equity interests. On March 9, 2017 and May 9, 2017, the compensation committee determined that direct evidence of the fair value of the Class A common stock was available and that it was not necessary to apply the company transaction method. Based on the foregoing, the compensation committee determined the fair value of Class A common stock for financial reporting purposes to be $2.28 as of December 28, 2016 and $7.50 as of March 9, 2017 and as of May 9, 2017. As a result, the exercise prices of the stock options granted on December 28, 2016, March 9, 2017 and May 9, 2017 exceeded or equaled the fair value of Class A common stock on that date. Inventory Inventories consist of finished goods, raw materials, work-in-process and consumable materials. Finished goods are comprised of direct materials, direct labor, depreciation and manufacturing overhead. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value of the inventory at September 30, 2017 and at the lower of cost and market value of the inventory at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The cost of a general inventory item is determined using the weighted average method. The cost of an inventory item purchased specifically for a customized tool is determined using the specific identification method. Market value is determined as the lower of replacement cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling price, in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs to complete or dispose. We assess the recoverability of all inventories quarterly to determine if any adjustments are required. We write down excess or obsolete tool-related inventory based on managements analysis of inventory levels and forecasted 12-month demand and technological obsolescence and spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are affected by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction, and they require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and those differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and spoilage are recognized as current period charges. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets at their estimated collectible amounts. A substantial majority of our accounts receivable are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers in Asia. We follow the allowance method of recognizing uncollectible accounts receivable, pursuant to which we regularly assess our ability to collect outstanding customer invoices and make estimates of the collectability of accounts receivable. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when we determine that the collection of an outstanding customer receivable is not probable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (a) accounts receivable and historical bad debts experience, (b) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations, (c) changes in our customer payment history, and (d) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and the impact of those conditions on our customers. If circumstances change, such that the financial conditions of our customers are adversely affected and they are unable to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. 38 Table of Contents Deferred IPO Costs Direct costs attributable to the IPO were deferred and recorded in other current assets and will be offset against the gross proceeds received from the IPO. At September 30, 2017 and December 30, 2016, deferred costs attributable to the IPO were $859,000 and $41,000, respectively. Property, Plant and Equipment Assets comprising property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets and begins when the assets are placed in service. Betterments or renewals are capitalized when incurred. Maintenance and repairs with respect to an asset are expensed as incurred if they neither materially add to the value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its life. Assets comprising plant, property and equipment are reviewed each year to determine whether any events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the fair value of separately recognizable intangible assets acquired in connection with our business operations. We evaluate intangibles for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be fully recoverable or that the useful life is shorter than we had originally estimated. When these events or changes occur, we evaluate the impairment of the long-lived assets by comparing the carrying value of the assets to an estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flow is less than the carrying value of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. No impairment charge was recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 or September 30, 2016. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for using the liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance would be provided for the deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the related benefit will not be realized. On a quarterly basis, we provide income tax provisions based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintained a partial valuation allowance as of December 31, 2016 with respect to certain net deferred tax assets based on our estimates of recoverability. We determined that the partial valuation allowance was appropriate given our historical operating losses and uncertainty with respect to our ability to generate profits from our business model sufficient to take advantage of the deferred tax assets in all applicable tax jurisdictions. 39 Table of Contents The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than fifty-percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recorded in the provision for income tax expense on the consolidated statements of operations. Foreign Currency Translation Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, which is our reporting currency, while the functional currency of our subsidiaries in the PRC is RMB. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transactions. Any difference between the initially recorded amount and the settlement amount is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency transaction in our consolidated statements of operations. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange as of the date of a consolidated balance sheet. Any difference is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency translation in the appropriate consolidated statement of operations. In accordance with the FASBs ASC Topic 830, Foreign Currency Matters , we translate the assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars from RMB using the rate of exchange prevailing at the applicable balance sheet date and the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows are translated at an average rate during the reporting period. Adjustments resulting from the translation are recorded in stockholders equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive income. The PRC government imposes significant exchange restrictions on fund transfers out of the PRC that are not related to business operations. To date these restrictions have not had a material impact on us because we have not engaged in any significant transactions that are subject to the restrictions. Warranty We have provided warranty coverage on our tools for 12 to 36 months, covering labor and parts necessary to repair a tool during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as sales and marketing expense at the time revenue is recognized. Warranty obligations are affected by historical failure rates and associated replacement costs. Utilizing historical warranty cost records, we calculate a rate of warranty expenses to revenue to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges on a regular basis. The actual product performance and field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements that we have adopted or will be required to adopt in the future, please see the description under the heading Recent Accounting Pronouncements in note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 40 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented, as percentages of revenue. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (percentage of revenue) Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 55.0 40.6 58.3 55.9 Gross margin 45.0 59.4 41.7 44.1 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 21.2 14.5 18.7 19.4 Research and development 24.7 16.6 15.9 17.7 General and administrative 25.8 12.3 22.9 13.0 Total operating expenses, net 71.7 43.4 57.5 50.1 Income (loss) from operations (26.7 ) 16.0 (15.8 ) (6.0 ) Interest expense, net (0.7 ) (1.4 ) (1.0 ) (0.9 ) Other income (expense), net 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Equity in net income of affiliates 0.4 0.1 Non-operating income (expense), net (4.9 ) (0.7 ) (2.7 ) 3.6 Income (loss) before income taxes (31.9 ) 14.0 (19.4 ) (3.2 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 5.7 (2.7 ) (2.4 ) (0.5 ) Net income (loss) (26.2 ) 11.3 (21.8 ) (3.7 ) Less: Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (6.7 ) 4.1 (2.8 ) (2.1 ) Net income (loss) attributable to ACM Research, Inc. (19.5 )% 7.4 % (19.0 )% (1.6 )% Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Revenue $ 4,891 $ 4,904 (0.3 )% The decrease in revenue of $13,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 reflected decreases in revenue from advanced packaging equipment of $1.3 million substantially offset by increases in revenue from single-wafer cleaning equipment of $1.3 million. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,692 $ 1,989 35.3 % Gross profit $ 2,199 $ 2,915 (24.6 ) Gross margin 45.0 % 59.4 % (14.4 ) Cost of revenue increased $703,000, and gross profit decreased $716,000, from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the comparable period in 2017. Gross margin decreased 14.4%, primarily due to the sale of one higher-margin single-wafer wet cleaning tool during the three months ended September 30, 2016. 41 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Sales and marketing expense $ 1,036 $ 709 46.1 % Research and development expense 1,209 813 48.7 General and administrative expense 1,264 605 108.9 Total operating expenses, net $ 3,509 $ 2,127 65.0 Sales and marketing expense increased $327,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, primarily due to an increase in service expenses and personnel cost, partially offset by a decrease in sales commissions. Research and development expense increased $396,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, principally as a result of increases in testing fees and personnel cost. Research and development expense represented 24.7% and 16.6% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Without reduction by grant amounts received from PRC governmental authorities (see Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding), gross research and development expense totaled $900,000, or 18.4% of revenue, in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and $4.2 million, or 86.4% of revenue, in the three months ended September 30, 2016. General and administrative expense increased $659,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, principally resulting from preparations to become a public company. These costs reflected increases of $299,000 in stock-based compensation expense, $103,000 in personnel costs, $78,000 in professional and consulting fees, and $47,000 in travelling expense. Other Income and Expenses Three Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Interest expense, net $ (31 ) $ (60 ) (48.3 )% Equity in net income of affiliates 20 NA Non-operating income (expense), net $ (239 ) $ (35 ) 582.9 Interest expense consists of interest incurred from outstanding short-term borrowings and notes payable. Interest expense decreased to $33,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $66,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2016, principally as a result of decreased borrowings under short-term bank loans. We earn interest income from depositary accounts. Interest income was nominal in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. Non-operating income (expense), net primarily reflects (a) gains or losses recognized from the effect of exchange rates on our foreign currency-denominated asset and liability balances, (b) depreciation of assets acquired with government subsidies, as described under Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding above, and (c) losses we recognized upon dispositions of fixed assets. 42 Table of Contents Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The following presents components of income tax (expense) benefit for the indicated periods: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Current: U.S. federal $ $ U.S. state Foreign Total current income tax (expense) benefit Current: U.S. federal U.S. state Foreign 278 (132 ) Total deferred income tax (expense) benefit 278 (132 ) Total current income tax (expense) benefit $ 278 $ (132 ) Our effective tax rate differs from statutory rates of 34% for U.S. federal income tax purposes and 15% to 25% for PRC income tax purpose due to the effects of the valuation allowance and certain permanent differences as it pertains to book-tax differences in the value of client equity securities received for services. Our two PRC subsidiaries, ACM Shanghai and ACM Research (Wuxi), Inc., are liable for PRC corporate income taxes at the rates of 15% and 25%, respectively. Pursuant to the Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC, our PRC subsidiaries generally would be liable for PRC corporate income taxes as a rate of 25%. According to Guoshuihan 2009 No. 203, an entity certified as an advanced and new technology enterprise is entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15%. ACM Shanghai was certified as an advanced and new technology enterprise in 2012 and again in 2016, with an effective period of three years. We file income tax returns in the United States and state and foreign jurisdictions. Those federal, state and foreign income tax returns are under the statute of limitations subject to tax examinations for 2009 through 2016. To the extent we have tax attribute carryforwards, the tax years in which the attribute was generated may still be adjusted upon examination by the Internal Revenue Service or state or foreign tax authorities to the extent utilized in a future period. We intend to reinvest indefinitely our PRC earnings as of September 30, 2017 outside of the United States, and we therefore have not provided for taxes with respect to the remissions of such earnings from the PRC to the United States. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Nine Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Revenue $ 19,314 $ 13,026 48.3 % The increase in revenue of $6.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to increases in revenue from single-wafer cleaning equipment. 43 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Nine Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 11,262 $ 7,281 54.7 % Gross profit $ 8,052 $ 5,745 40.2 Gross margin 41.7 % 44.1 % (2.4 ) Cost of revenue increased $4.0 million, and gross profit increased $2.3 million, from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the comparable period in 2017, reflecting the growth in sales and the decrease in gross margin. Gross margin decreased (2.4)%, primarily due to the sale of one higher-margin single-wafer wet cleaning tool during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Operating Expenses Nine Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Sales and marketing expense $ 3,619 $ 2,527 43.2 % Research and development expense 3,076 2,299 33.8 General and administrative expense 4,422 1,694 161.0 Total operating expenses, net $ 11,117 $ 6,520 70.5 Sales and marketing expense increased $1.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, primarily due to an increase in service expenses, personnel cost and shipping cost. Research and development expense increased $777,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, principally as a result of increases in testing fees and personnel cost. Research and development expense represented 15.9% and 17.7% of our revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Without reduction by grant amounts received from PRC governmental authorities (see Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding), gross research and development expense totaled $5.9 million, or 30.5% of revenue, in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and $7.7 million, or 59.1% of revenue, in the nine months ended September 30, 2016. General and administrative expense increased $2.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period in 2016, principally resulting from preparations to become a public company. These costs reflected increases of $1.4 million in stock-based compensation expense, $679,000 in professional and consulting fees, $183,000 in personnel costs, and $118,000 in rental expense. Other Income and Expenses Nine Months Ended September 30, % Change 2017 2016 2016 v 2017 (in thousands) Interest expense, net $ (190 ) $ (105 ) 81.0 % Equity in net income of affiliates 20 NA Non-operating income (expense), net (531 ) 471 NA Interest expense consists of interest incurred from outstanding short-term borrowings and notes payable. Interest expense increased to $197,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $118,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2016, principally as a result of increased borrowings under short-term bank loans. We earn interest income from depositary accounts. Interest income was nominal in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. 44 Table of Contents Other income, net primarily reflects (a) gains or losses recognized from the effect of exchange rates on our foreign currency-denominated asset and liability balances, (b) depreciation of assets acquired with government subsidies, as described under Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding above, and (c) losses we recognized upon dispositions of fixed assets. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The following presents components of income tax (expense) benefit for the indicated periods: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Current: U.S. federal $ $ U.S. state Foreign Total current income tax (expense) benefit Current: U.S. federal U.S. state Foreign (471 ) (59 ) Total deferred income tax (expense) benefit (471 ) (59 ) Total current income tax (expense) benefit $ (471 ) $ (59 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources Initially we funded our operations principally through issuances of four series of convertible preferred stock from our formation in 1998 through 2001 and issuances of convertible and term promissory notes in 2003 and 2004. We issued additional convertible and term promissory notes in 2005 and 2006 in anticipation of moving our operational center to Shanghai in 2006, and following that transition, our new subsidiary ACM Shanghai raised funds through sales of its non-controlling equity interests in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Prior to 2016, we also funded our operations with (a) subsidies received from PRC governmental authorities pursuant to grants made in 2008, 2009 and 2014, (b) short-term borrowings by ACM Shanghai from local financial institutions in 2009 and each year since 2011 through 2015, (c) additional issuances of term promissory notes in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and (d) operating cash flow in 2015. Since January 1, 2016, we have funded our technology development and operations through: issuances of two additional series of convertible preferred stock in 2016 and the third quarter of 2017; an investment deposit in 2016 made in connection with issuance of a Class A common stock warrant in March 2017; short-term borrowings by ACM Shanghai from local financial institutions in 2016 and the first nine months of 2017; operating cash flow in the first nine months of 2017; and the IPO and the concurrent private placement in November 2017. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents (including our net proceeds of the IPO and the concurrent private placement), our cash flow from operating activities and short-term bank borrowings by ACM Shanghai will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We do not expect that our anticipated cash needs for the next twelve months will require our receipt of any PRC government subsidies. Our future working capital needs will depend on many factors, including the rate of our business and revenue growth, the payment schedules of our customers, and the timing of investment in our research and development as well as sales and marketing. To the extent our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operating activities and short-term bank borrowings are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through additional bank credit arrangements or public or private debt or equity financings. We also may need to raise additional funds in the event we determine in the future to effect one or more acquisitions of businesses, technologies and products. If additional funding is required, we may not be able to obtain bank credit arrangements or to affect an equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. 45 Table of Contents Sources of Funds Equity and Equity-Related Securities From January 1, 2016 to December 1, 2017, we received gross proceeds of $54.1 million from sales of common stock, convertible preferred stock and a warrant, as described below. Common Stock . In 2016 we received gross proceeds totaling $584,250 upon exercises of common stock options. In 2017 we have sold shares of common stock as follows: Issue Date (2017) Transaction Gross Proceeds (in thousands) February-September Option exercises $ 411 September 8 Private placements (see Minority Interests in Our Operating Company) 14,300 September 11 Private placement 1,000 November 7 and 14 IPO 12,505 November 7 Concurrent private placement 7,467 $ 35,683 Convertible Preferred Stock . In 2016 we received gross proceeds of $9.0 million from sales of shares of Series F convertible preferred stock that converted, upon completion of the IPO, into 1,205,278 shares of Class A common stock, for an effective purchase price of $7.50 per share. In 2017 we received gross proceeds of $5.8 million from sales of shares of Series E convertible preferred stock that converted, upon completion of the IPO, into 1,666,170 shares of Class A common stock, for an effective purchase price of $3.48 per share. Warrant . In December 2016 SMC delivered to ACM Shanghai 20,123,500 RMB ($3.0 million as of the date of funding) in cash for potential investment pursuant to terms to be subsequently negotiated. In March 2017 we issued to SMC a warrant exercisable to purchase 397,502 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $7.50 per share, for a total exercise price of $3.0 million. Indebtedness ACM Shanghai Short-Term Loan Facilities . ACM Shanghai is a party to lines of credit with three banks, as follows: Lender Agreement Date Maturity Date Annual Interest Rate Maximum Borrowing Amount(1) Amount Outstanding at November 15, 2017(1) Bank of China Pudong Branch August 2017 March 2018 5.69 % RMB30,000 RMB14,500 $4,521 $2,185 Bank of Shanghai Pudong Branch August 2017 September 2018 5.66 RMB25,000 RMB8,540 $3,768 $1,287 Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank September 2017 September 2018 5.44-5.66 RMB5,000 $754 RMB60,000 RMB23,040 $9,042 $3,472 (1) Converted to dollars as of November 15, 2017 All of the amounts owing under the line of credit with Bank of China Pudong Branch are secured by ACM Shanghais intellectual property. All of the amounts owing under the lines of credit with Bank of Shanghai Pudong Branch and Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank are guaranteed by David Wang, our Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. 46 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Operating Activities Our operations used cash flow of $3.7 million in 2016 and $4.7 million in the first nine months of 2017. Our cash flow from operating activities is influenced by (a) the amount of cash we invest in personnel and technology development to support anticipated future growth in our business, (b) increases in the number of customers using our products and services, and (c) the amount and timing of payments by customers. Government Research and Development Grants As described under Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding, ACM Shanghai has received research and development grants from local and central PRC governmental authorities. ACM Shanghai received $6.6 million of such grants in 2016 and, as of December 1, 2017, had received $2.6 million of such grants in 2017. Not all grant amounts are received in the year in which a grant is awarded. ACM Shanghai does not expect to receive any additional grants in 2017. Because of the nature and terms of the grants, the amounts and timing of payments under the grants are difficult to predict and vary from period to period. In addition, we expect to apply for additional grants when available in the future, but the grant application process can extend for a significant period of time and we cannot predict whether, or when, we will determine to apply for any such grants. Working Capital The following table sets forth selected working capital information: September 30, 2017 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 17,074 Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful amounts 15,784 Inventory 18,077 Working capital 35,456 Our cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2017 were unrestricted and held for working capital purposes. ACM Shanghai, our only direct PRC subsidiary, is, however, subject to PRC restrictions on distributions to equity holders. We currently intend for ACM Shanghai to retain all available funds any future earnings for use in the operation of its business and do not anticipate its paying any cash dividends. We have not entered into, and do not expect to enter into, investments for trading or speculative purposes. Our accounts receivable balance fluctuates from period to period, which affects our cash flow from operating activities. Fluctuations vary depending on cash collections, client mix, and the timing of shipment and acceptance of our tools. Uses of Funds Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures totaled $795,000 in 2016. Substantially all of the capital expenditures were made to purchase equipment or improve infrastructure for our research and development and manufacturing facilities. During 2017 we are continuing to invest in equipment and infrastructure improvements for our manufacturing and research and development facilities and, to a lesser extent, leasehold improvements for our administrative facilities. The extent of these investments may be affected by the pace with which we add new customers and obtain additional purchase orders. Our capital expenditures totaled $186,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. We are not currently party to any purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures. 47 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Requirements The following table sets forth sets forth our commitments to settle contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016: Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Operating leases: $ 2,538 $ 8 $ $ $ 2,546 Operating lease obligations with respect to office space consisted of amounts arising under lease agreements for our headquarters in Fremont, California, our operation center in Shanghai, PRC, and other small regional office locations. For additional information about these lease agreements, see BusinessFacilities. The commitment amounts in the table above are associated with contracts that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. The table does not include obligations under agreements that we can cancel without a significant penalty. Other than changes that occurred in the normal course of business, as of September 30, 2017 there were no significant changes to the contractual obligations reported at December 31, 2016. As of September 30, 2017, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. We therefore believe we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. Effects of Inflation Inflation and changing prices have not had a material effect on our business, and we do not expect that they will materially affect our business in the foreseeable future. Any impact of inflation on cost of revenue and operating expenses, especially employee compensation costs, may not be readily recoverable in the price of our product offerings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, and may take advantage of provisions that reduce our reporting and other obligations from those otherwise generally applicable to public companies. We may take advantage of these provisions until the earliest of December 31, 2022 or such time that we have annual revenue greater than $1.0 billion, the market value of our capital stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million or we have issued more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt in a three-year period. We have chosen to take advantage of some of these provisions, and as a result we may not provide stockholders with all of the information that is provided by other public companies. We have, however, irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves, as would have been permitted by Section 107 of the JOBS Act, of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933 for complying with new or revised accounting standards, and we therefore will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as public companies that are not emerging growth companies.