Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview, of Part II of this report contains statistical data and estimates, including forecasts, that are based on information provided by Gartner, Inc., or Gartner, in Forecast: Semiconductor Wafer Fab Equipment, Worldwide, 4Q20 Update (December 22, 2020), or the Gartner Report. The Gartner Report represents research opinions or viewpoints that are published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner and are not representations of fact. The Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this report), and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report are subject to change without notice. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding any of the data presented from the Gartner Report, estimates, and in particular forecasts, involve numerous assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, as well as change based on various factors, that could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the data presented below. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements publicly or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this report, and the documents that we reference in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We supply advanced, innovative capital equipment developed for the global semiconductor industry. Fabricators of advanced integrated circuits, or chips, can use our wet-cleaning and other front-end processing tools in numerous steps to improve product yield, even at increasingly advanced process nodes. We have designed these tools for use in fabricating foundry, logic and memory chips, including dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, and 3D NAND-flash memory chips. We also develop, manufacture and sell a range of advanced packaging tools to wafer assembly and packaging customers. Revenue from wet cleaning and other front-end processing tools totaled $136.3 million, or 87.0% of total revenue in 2020; $90.9 million, or 84.6% of total revenue, in 2019; and $68.5 million, or 91.7% of total revenue, in 2018. Selling prices for our wet-cleaning production tools range from $2 million to more than $5 million. Our customers for wet-cleaning and other front-end processing tools have included Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, The Huahong Group, SK Hynix Inc., Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd, and ChangXin Memory Technologies. Revenue from advanced packaging, other back-end processing tools, services and spares totaled $20.4 million, or 13.0% of total revenue in 2020, $16.6 million, or 15.4% of total revenue in 2019, and $6.2 million or 8.3% of total revenue in 2018. Selling prices for these tools range from $0.5 million to more than $2 million. Our customers for advanced packaging, and other back-end processing tools have included Jiangyin Changdian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a leading PRC-based wafer bumping packaging house that is a subsidiary of JCET Group Co., Ltd.; Nantong Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a PRC-based chip assembly and testing company that is a subsidiary of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; Nepes Co., Ltd., a semiconductor packaging company based in South Korea which acquired the operations of Deca Technologies Philippines manufacturing facility in 2020; and Wafer Works Corporation, a leading PRC-based wafer supplier. We estimate, based on third-party reports and on customer and other information, that our current product portfolio addresses more than $5 billion of the global wafer equipment market. By product line, we estimate an approximately $2.5 billion market opportunity is addressed by our wafer cleaning equipment, $1.7 billion by our furnace equipment, $500 million by our electro-chemical plating, or ECP equipment, and more than $300 million by our stress-free polishing, or SFP, advanced packaging, wafer processing, and other back-end processing equipment. By major equipment segment, Gartner estimates a 2020 global market size of $3.5 billion for wafer cleaning equipment (auto wet stations, single-wafer processors, batch spray processors, and other clean process equipment), $2.4 billion for furnace equipment (tube CVD, oxidation/diffusion furnace, and batch atomic layer deposition), and $546 million for ECD (electro-chemical deposition). Based on Gartners estimates, the total available global market for these equipment segments increased by 15% from $5.6 billion in 2019 to $6.4 billion in 2020, and is expected to increase by 6% to $6.8 billion in 2021. We have focused our selling efforts on establishing a referenceable base of leading foundry, logic and memory chip makers, whose use of our products can influence decisions by other manufacturers. We believe this customer base has helped us penetrate the mature chip manufacturing markets and build credibility with additional industry leaders. We have used a demo-to-sales process to place evaluation equipment, or first tools, with a number of selected customers. Since 2009 we have delivered more than 135 wet cleaning and other front-end processing tools, more than 120 of which have been accepted by customers and thereby generated revenue to us. The balance of the delivered tools are awaiting customer acceptance should contractual conditions be met. To date, a substantial majority of our sales of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment for front-end manufacturing have been to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue from these products will continue to come from customers located in this region for the foreseeable future. We have begun to add to our efforts to further address customers in North America, Western Europe and Southeast Asia by expanding our direct sales and services teams and increasing our global marketing activities. We are focused on building a strategic portfolio of intellectual property to support and protect our key innovations. Our tools have been developed using our key proprietary technologies: Space Alternated Phase Shift, or SAPS, technology for flat and patterned (deep via or deep trench with stronger structure) wafer surfaces. SAPS technology employs alternating phases of megasonic waves to deliver megasonic energy in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level. We have shown SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray technologies in removing random defects across an entire wafer, with increasing relative effectiveness at more advanced production nodes. 4 Table of Contents Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation, or TEBO, technology for patterned wafer surfaces at advanced process nodes . TEBO technology has been developed to provide effective, damage-free cleaning for 2D and 3D patterned wafers with fine feature sizes. We have demonstrated the damage-free cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on patterned wafers for feature nodes as small as 1xnm (16 to 19 nanometers, or nm), and we have shown TEBO technology can be applied in manufacturing processes for patterned chips with 3D architectures having aspect ratios as high as 60to1. Tahoe technology for cost and environmental savings. Tahoe technology delivers high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. ECP technology for advanced metal plating. Our Ultra ECP ap, or Advanced Packaging, technology was developed for back-end assembly processes to deliver a more uniform metal layer at the notch area of wafers prior to packaging. Our Ultra ECP map, or Multi-Anode Partial Plating, technology was developed for front-end wafer fabrication processes to deliver advanced electrochemical copper plating for copper interconnect applications. Ultra ECP map offers improved gap-filling performance for ultra-thin seed layer applications, which is critical for advanced nodes at 14nm and beyond. In 2020 we introduced and delivered a range of new tools intended to broaden our revenue opportunity with global semiconductor manufacturers. Product extensions include the Ultra SFP ap tool for advanced packaging solutions, the Ultra C VI 18-chamber single wafer cleaning tool for advanced memory devices, and the Ultra ECP 3d platform for through-silicon-via, or tsv, application. New product lines include the Ultra fn Furnace, our first dry processing tool, and a suite of semi-critical cleaning systems which include single wafer back side cleaning, scrubber, and auto bench cleaning tools. We have been issued more than 350 patents in the United States, the Peoples Republic of China or PRC, Japan, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. We conduct a substantial majority of our product development, manufacturing, support and services in the PRC, with additional product development and subsystem production in South Korea. Substantially all of our integrated tools are built to order at our manufacturing facilities in the Pudong region of Shanghai, which facilities now encompass a total of 136,000 square feet of floor space for production capacity, with 50,000 square feet having been added in 2020 through an expansion of our second facility in the Pudong region of Shanghai. In May 2020 ACM Shanghai, through its wholly owned subsidiary Shengwei Research (Shanghai), Inc., entered into an agreement for a land use right in the Lingang region of Shanghai. In July 2020 Shengwei Research (Shanghai), Inc. began a multi-year construction project for a new 1,000,000 square foot development and production center that will incorporate state-of-the-art manufacturing systems and automation technologies, and will provide floor space to support significantly increase production capacity and related research and development activities. Our experience has shown that chip manufacturers in the PRC and throughout Asia demand equipment meeting their specific technical requirements and prefer building relationships with local suppliers. We will continue to seek to leverage our local presence in the PRC to address the growing market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the region by working closely with regional chip manufacturers to understand their specific requirements, encourage them to adopt our technologies, and enable us to design innovative products and solutions to address their needs. In June 2019 we announced a strategic plan to list shares of ACM Shanghai on the Shanghai Stock Exchanges Sci-Tech InnovAtion BoaRd, as described under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRecent DevelopmentsSTAR Market Listing and IPO. Our Technology and Product Offerings Wet Cleaning Equipment for Front End Production Processes Chip fabricators can use our single-wafer wet-cleaning tools in numerous steps to improve product yield in the front-end production process, during which individual devices are patterned in a chip prior to being interconnected on a wafer. Our wet-cleaning equipment has been developed using our proprietary SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies, which allow our tools to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging a wafer or its features, even at increasingly advanced process nodes (the minimum line widths on a chip) of 22nm or less. We use a modular configuration that enables us to create a wet-cleaning tool meeting the specific requirements of a customer, while using pre-existing designs for chamber, electrical, chemical delivery and other modules. Our modular approach supports a wide range of customer needs and facilitates the adaptation of our model tools for use with the optimal chemicals selected to meet a customers requirements. Our tools are offered principally for use in manufacturing chips from 300 millimeter, or mm, silicon wafers, but we also offer solutions for 150mm and 200mm wafers and for nonstandard substrates, including compound semiconductor, quartz, sapphire, glass and plastics. 5 Table of Contents SAPS Technology, Applications and Equipment SAPS Technology SAPS technology delivers megasonic energy uniformly to every point on an entire wafer by alternating phases of megasonic waves in the gap between a megasonic transducer and the wafer. Radicals for removing random defects are generated in dilute solution, and the radical generation is promoted by megasonic energy. Unlike stationary megasonic transducers used in conventional megasonic cleaning methods, SAPS technology moves or tilts a transducer while a wafer rotates, enabling megasonic energy to be delivered uniformly across all points on the wafer, even if the wafer is warped. The mechanical force of cavitations generated by megasonic energy enhances the mass transfer rate of dislodged random defects and improves particle removal efficiency. By delivering megasonic energy in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level, SAPS technology can precisely control the intensity of megasonic energy and can effectively remove random defects of all sizes across the entire wafer in less total cleaning time than conventional megasonic cleaning products, without loss of material or roughing of wafer surfaces. We have conducted trials demonstrating SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray cleaning technologies as defect sizes shrink from 300nm to 20nm and below. These trials show that SAPS technology has an even greater relative advantage over conventional jet spray technology for cleaning defects between 50 and 65nm in size, and we expect the relative benefits of SAPS will continue to apply in cleaning even smaller defect sizes. SAPS Applications SAPS megasonic cleaning technology can be applied during the chip fabrication process to clean wafer surfaces and interconnects. It also can be used to clean, and lengthen the lifetime, of recycled test wafers. Wafer Surfaces. SAPS technology can enhance removal of random defects following planarization and deposition, which are among the most important, and most repeated, steps in the fabrication process: Post CMP : Chemical mechanical planarization, or CMP, uses an abrasive chemical slurry following other fabrication processes, such as deposition and etching, in order to achieve a smooth wafer surface in preparation for subsequent processing steps. SAPS technology can be applied following each CMP process to remove residual random defects deposited or formed during CMP. Post Hard Mask Deposition: As part of the photolithographical patterning process, a mask is applied with each deposition of a material layer to prevent etching of material intended to be retained. Hard masks have been developed to etch high aspect-ratio features of advanced chips that traditional masks cannot tolerate. SAPS technology can be applied following each deposition step involving hard masks that use nitride, oxide or carbon based materials to achieve higher etch selectivity and resolution. For these purposes, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals, reducing chemical consumption. Chemical types include dilute solutions of chemicals used in RCA cleaning, such as dilute hydrofluoric acid and RCA SC-1 solutions, and, for higher quality wafer cleaning, functional de-ionized water produced by dissolving hydrogen, nitrogen or carbon dioxide in water containing a small amount of chemicals, such as ammonia. Functional water removes random defects by generating radicals, and megasonic excitation can be used in conjunction with functional water to further increase the generation of radicals. Functional water has a lower cost and environmental impact than RCA solutions, and using functional water is more efficient in eliminating random defects than using dilute chemicals or de-ionized water alone. We have shown that SAPS megasonic technology using functional water exhibits high efficiency in removing random defects, especially particles smaller than 65nm, with minimal damage to structures. Interconnects and Barrier Metals . Each successive advanced process node has led to finer feature sizes of interconnects such as contacts, which form electrical pathways between a transistor and the first metal layer, and vias, which form electrical pathways between two metal layers. Advanced nodes have also resulted in higher aspect ratios for interconnect structures, with thinner, redesigned metal barriers being used to prevent diffusion. SAPS technology can improve the removal of residues and other random defects from interconnects during the chip fabrication process: Post Contact/Via Etch: Wet etching processes are commonly used to create patterns of high-density contacts and vias. SAPS technology can be applied after each such etching process to remove random defects that could otherwise lead to electrical shorts. Pre Barrier Metal Deposition : Copper wiring requires metal diffusion barriers at the top of via holes to prevent electrical leakage. SAPS technology can be applied prior to deposition of barrier metal to remove residual oxidized copper, which otherwise would adhere poorly to the barrier and impair performance. 6 Table of Contents For these applications, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, ozonated de-ionized water and functional de-ionized water with dissolved hydrogen. These chemical solutions take the place of piranha solution, a high-temperature mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide used by conventional wet wafer cleaning processes. We have shown that SAPS technology exhibits greater efficiency in removing random defects, and lower levels of material loss, than conventional processes, and our chemical solutions are less expensive and more environmentally conscious than piranha solution. Recycled Test Wafers. In addition to using silicon wafers for chip production, chip manufacturers routinely process wafers through a limited portion of the front-end fabrication steps in order to evaluate the health, performance and reliability of those steps. Manufacturers also use wafers for non-product purposes such as inline monitoring. Wafers used for purposes other than manufacturing revenue products are known as test wafers, and it is typical for twenty to thirty percent of the wafers circulating in a fab to be test wafers. In light of the significant cost of wafers, manufacturers seek to re-use a test wafer for more than one test. As test wafers are recycled, surface roughness and other defects progressively impair the ability of a wafer to complete tests accurately. SAPS technology can be applied to reduce random defect levels of a recycled wafer, enabling the test wafer to be reclaimed for use in additional testing processes. For these purposes, SAPS technology includes improved fan filter units that balances intake and exhaust flows, precise temperature and concentration controls that ensure better handling of concentrated acid processes, and two-chemical recycle capability that reduces chemical consumption. SAPS Equipment We offer two principal models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our SAPS technology, Ultra C SAPS II and Ultra C SAPS V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute chemicals, used to remove random defects from wafer surfaces or interconnects and barrier metals as part of the chip front-end fabrication process or for recycling test wafers. By combining our megasonic and chemical cleaning technologies, we have designed these tools to remove random defects with greater efficacy and efficiency than conventional wafer cleaning processes, with enhanced process flexibility and reduced quantities of chemicals. Each of our SAPS models was initially built to meet specific requirements of a key customer. SAPS II (released in 2011). Highlights of our SAPS II equipment include: compact design, with footprint of 2.65m x 4.10m x 2.85m (WxDxH), requiring limited clean room floor space; up to 8 chambers, providing throughput of up to 225 wafers per hour; double-sided cleaning capability, with up to 5 cleaning chemicals for process flexibility; 2-chemical recycling capability for reduced chemical consumption; image wafer detection method for lowering wafer breakage rates; and chemical delivery module for delivery of dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. 7 Table of Contents SAPS V (released in 2014). SAPS V includes SAPS II features with the following upgrades: compact design, with footprint of 2.55m x 5.1m x 2.85m (WxDxH), requiring limited clean room floor space; up to 12 chambers, providing throughput of up to 375 wafers per hour; chemical supply system integrated into mainframe; inline mixing method replaces tank auto-changing, reducing process time; and improved drying technology using hot isopropyl alcohol and de-ionized water. TEBO Technology, Applications and Equipment TEBO Technology We developed TEBO technology for application in wet wafer cleaning during the fabrication of 2D and 3D wafers with fine feature sizes. TEBO technology facilitates effective cleaning even with patterned features too small or fragile to be addressed by conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning technologies. TEBO technology solves the problems created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Cavitation is the formation of bubbles in a liquid, and transient cavitation is a process in which a bubble in fluid implodes or collapses. In conventional megasonic cleaning processes, megasonic energy forms bubbles and then causes those bubbles to implode or collapse, blasting destructive high-pressure, high-temperature micro jets toward the wafer surface. Our internal testing has confirmed that at any level of megasonic energy capable of removing random defects, the sonic energy and mechanical force generated by transient cavitation are sufficiently strong to damage fragile patterned structures with features less than 70nm. TEBO technology provides multi-parameter control of cavitation by using a sequence of rapid changes in pressure to force a bubble in liquid to oscillate at controlled sizes, shapes and temperatures, rather than implode or collapse. As a result, cavitation remains stable during TEBO megasonic cleaning processes, and a chip fabricator can, using TEBO technology, apply the level of megasonic energy needed to remove random defects without incurring the pattern damage created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning. We have demonstrated the damage-free or low-damage cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on customers patterned wafers as small as 1xnm (16nm to 19nm), and we believe TEBO technology will be applicable in even smaller fabrication process nodes. TEBO technology can be applied in manufacturing processes for conventional 2D chips with fine features and advanced chips with 3D structures, including Fin Field Effect Transistors or FinFET, DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory, and we expect it will be applicable to other 3D architectures developed in the future, such as carbon nanotubes and quantum devices. As a result of the thorough, controlled nature of TEBO processes, cleaning time for TEBO-based solutions may take longer than conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Conventional processes have proven ineffective, however, for process nodes of 20nm or less, and we believe the increased yield that can be achieved by using TEBO technology for nodes up to 70nm can more than offset the cost of the additional time in utilizing TEBO technology. TEBO Applications At process nodes of 28nm and less, chip makers face escalating challenges in eliminating nanometric particles and maintaining the condition of inside pattern surfaces. In order to maintain chip quality and avoid yield loss, cleaning technologies must control random defects of diminishing killer defect sizes, without roughing or otherwise damaging surfaces of transistors, interconnects or other wafer features. TEBO technology can be applied in numerous steps throughout the manufacturing process flow for effective, damage-free cleaning: 8 Table of Contents Memory Chips: We estimate that TEBO technology can be applied in as many as 50 steps in the fabrication of a DRAM chip, consisting of up to 10 steps in cleaning ISO structures, 20 steps in cleaning buried gates, and 20 steps in cleaning high aspect-ratio storage nodes and stacked films. Logic Chips: In the fabrication process for a logic chip with a FinFET structure, we estimate that TEBO technology can be used in 15 or more cleaning steps. For purposes of solving inside pattern surface conditions for memory or logic chips, TEBO technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as RCA SC-1 and hydrogen gas doped functional water. TEBO Equipment We offer two models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our TEBO technology, Ultra C TEBO II and Ultra C TEBO V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute chemicals, used at numerous manufacturing processing steps for effective, damage-free cleaning of chips at process nodes of 28nm or less. TEBO equipment solves the problem of pattern damage caused by transient cavitation in conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning processes, providing better particle removal efficiency with limited material loss or roughing. TEBO equipment is being evaluated by a select group of leading memory and logic chip customers. Each model of TEBO equipment includes: an equipment front-end module, or EFEM, which moves wafers from chamber to chamber; one or more chamber modules, each equipped with a TEBO megasonic generator system; an electrical module to provide power for the tool; and a chemical delivery module. Ultra C TEBO II (released in 2016). Highlights of our Ultra C TEBO II equipment include: compact design, with footprint of 2.25m x 2.25m x 2.85m (WxDxH); up to 8 chambers with an upgraded transport system and optimized robotic scheduler, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour; EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, transfer robot and 1 process robot; and focus on dilute chemicals contributes to environmental sustainability and lower cost of ownership. Ultra C TEBO V (released in 2016). Highlights of our Ultra C TEBO V equipment include: footprint of 2.45m x 5.30m x 2.85m (WxDxH); up to 12 chamber modules, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour; EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, 1 transfer robot and 1 process robot; and chemical delivery module for delivery of isopropyl alcohol, dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. Tahoe Overview Our Ultra-C Tahoe wafer cleaning tool can deliver high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. During normal single-wafer cleaning processes, only a fraction of the acid reacts with the wafer surface, while the majority is wasted as acid spins off the wafer and cannot be recycled. Tahoe employs a proprietary hybrid approach in which the sulfuric acid cleaning steps are processed in batch mode, and the final stage cleaning are processed with single-wafer cleaning technologies. In addition to providing cost savings resulting from vastly reduced acid consumption, Ultra-C Tahoe meets the needs of customers who face increased environmental regulations and demand new, more environmentally friendly tools. We delivered our first Ultra C Tahoe tool to a strategic customer in 2019. 9 Table of Contents Advanced Packaging and other Back-End Processing Tools We leverage our technology and expertise to provide a range of single-wafer tools for back-end wafer assembly and packaging factories. We develop, manufacture and sell a wide range of advanced packaging tools, such as coaters, developers, photoresist strippers, scrubbers, wet etchers and copper-plating tools. We focus on providing custom-made, differentiated equipment that incorporates customer-requested features at a competitive price. For example, our Ultra C Coater is used in applying photoresist, a light-sensitive material used in photolithography to transfer a pattern from a mask onto a wafer. Coaters typically provide input and output elevators, shuttle systems and other devices to handle and transport wafers during the coating process. Unlike most coaters, the Ultra C Coater is fully automated. Based on requests from customers, we developed and incorporated the special function of chamber auto-clean module into the Ultra C Coater, which further differentiates it from other products in the market. The Ultra C Coater is designed to deliver improved throughput and more efficient tool utilization while eliminating particle generation. Our other advanced packaging tools include: Ultra C Developer, which applies liquid developer to selected parts of photoresist to resolve an image; Ultra C PR Megasonic-Assisted Stripper, which removes photoresist; Ultra C Scrubber, which scrubs and cleans wafers; Ultra C Thin Wafer Scrubber, which addresses a sub-market of cleaning very thin wafers for certain Asian assembly factories; and Ultra C Wet Etcher, which etches silicon wafers and copper and titanium interconnects. Our Customers Since 2009 we have delivered more than 135 wet cleaning and other front-end processing tools, more than 120 of which have been accepted by customers and thereby generated revenue to us. The balance of the delivered tools are awaiting customer acceptance should contractual conditions be met. To date, substantially all of our sales of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment for front-end manufacturing have been to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue from these products will continue to come from customers located in this region for the foreseeable future. We have begun to add to our efforts to further address customers in North America, Western Europe and Southeast Asia, by expanding our direct sales teams and increasing our global marketing activities. We generate most of our revenue from a limited number of customers as the result of our strategy of initially placing equipment with a small number of leading chip manufacturers that are driving technology trends and key capability implementation. In 2020, 75.8% of our revenue was derived from three customers: Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation together with Huahong Semiconductor Ltd., collectively known as The Shanghai Huahong (Group) Company, Ltd. (The Huali Huahong Group), a leading PRC foundry, accounted for 36.9% of our revenue; Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd., a leading PRC memory chip company, together with one of its subsidiaries, accounted for 26.8% of our revenue; and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, a leading PRC foundry, accounted for 12.1% of our revenue. In 2019 73.8% of our revenue was derived from three customers: Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd., together with its subsidiaries accounted for 27.5% of our revenue; The Huali Huahong Group accounted for 26.5% of our revenue; and SK Hynix Inc., a leading Korean memory chip company, accounted for 19.8% of our revenue. In 2018, 87.6% of our revenue was derived from three customers: Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd. (together with a subsidiary) accounted for 39.6% of our revenue; Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation accounted for 24.2% of our revenue; and SK Hynix Inc. accounted for 23.8% of our revenue. Based on our market experience, we believe that implementation of our equipment by one of our selected chip manufacturers will attract and encourage other manufacturers to evaluate our equipment, because the leading companys implementation will serve as validation of our equipment and could enable the other manufacturers to shorten their evaluation processes. As an example, we placed our first SAPS tool in 2009 as a prototype. We worked closely with the customer for two years in debugging and modifying the tool, and the customer then spent two more years of qualification and running pilot production before beginning volume manufacturing. Our revenue in 2015 included sales of SAPS tools following the customers completion of its qualification process. The period from new product introduction to high volume manufacturing can range from one to several years. For our back-end wafer assembly and packaging customers, we focus on providing custom-made, differentiated equipment that incorporates a customers requested features at a competitive cost of ownership. Our customers for advanced packaging, wafer processing, and other back-end processing tools have included Jiangyin Changdian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a leading PRC-based wafer bumping packaging house that is a subsidiary of JCET Group Co., Ltd.; Nantong Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a PRC-based chip assembly and testing company that is a subsidiary of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; Nepes Co., Ltd., a semiconductor packaging company based in South Korea which acquired the operations of Deca Technologies Philippines manufacturing facility in 2020; and Wafer Works Corporation, a leading PRC-based wafer supplier. 10 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products worldwide using a combination of our direct sales force and third-party representatives. We employ direct sales teams in Asia, Europe and North America, and have located these teams near our customers, primarily in the PRC, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States. Each sales person has specific local market expertise. We also employ field application engineers, who are typically co-located with our direct sales teams, to provide technical pre- and post-sale support tours and other assistance to existing and potential customers throughout the customers fab planning and production line qualification and fab expansion phases. Our field application engineers are organized by end markets as well as core competencies in hardware, control system, software and process development to support our customers. To supplement our direct sales teams, we have contacts with several independent sales representatives in the PRC, South Korea and Taiwan. We select these independent representatives based on their ability to provide effective field sales, marketing forecast and technical requirement updates for our products. In the case of representatives, our customers place purchase orders with us directly rather than with the representatives. Our sales have historically been made using purchase orders with agreed technical specifications. Our sales terms and conditions are generally consistent with industry practice, but may vary from customer to customer. We seek to obtain a purchase order two to four months ahead of the customers desired delivery date. For some customers, we receive a letter of intent a few weeks ahead, followed by the corresponding purchase order four months ahead of the customers desired delivery date. Consistent with industry practice, we allow customers to reschedule or cancel orders at a certain cost to them on relatively short notice. Because of our relatively short delivery period and our practice of permitting rescheduling or cancellation, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue. Our marketing team focuses on our product strategy and technology road maps, product marketing, new product introduction processes, demand assessment and competitive analysis, customer requirement communication and public relations. Our marketing team also has the responsibility to conduct environmental scans, study industry trends and arrange our participation at major trade shows. Manufacturing We conduct a substantial majority of our product development, manufacturing, support and services in the PRC, with additional product development and subsystem production in South Korea. Substantially all of our tools are built to order at our manufacturing facilities in the Pudong region of Shanghai, which now encompass a total of 136,000 square feet of floor space for production capacity, with 50,000 square feet having been added in the second quarter of 2020 through an expansion of our second facility in the Pudong region of Shanghai. In May 2020 ACM Shanghai, through its wholly owned subsidiary Shengwei Research (Shanghai), Inc., entered into an agreement for a land use right in the Lingang region of Shanghai. In July 2020 Shengwei Research (Shanghai), Inc. began a multi-year construction project for a new development and production center. The planned 1,000,000 square foot facility will incorporate state-of-the-art manufacturing systems and automation technologies, and will provide the floor space to support significantly more production capacity and related research and development activities when fully-staffed and supplied. See Item 2. Properties, of Part I of this report. Our experience has shown that chip manufacturers in the PRC and throughout Asia demand equipment meeting their specific technical requirements and prefer building relationships with local suppliers. We will continue to seek to leverage our local presence to address the growing market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the region by working closely with regional chip manufacturers to understand their specific requirements, encourage them to adopt our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP technologies, and enable us to design innovative products and solutions to address their needs. In February 2020 our ACM Shanghai headquarters were closed for an additional six days beyond the normal Lunar New Year Holiday in accordance with Shanghai government restrictions related to the COVID-19 outbreak. We took steps before and after the 2020 Lunar New Year to ensure no employees took unreasonable risks to rush back to work. Currently substantially all of our staff have returned to work at both of our Shanghai facilities. For additional information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRecent DevelopmentsCOVID-19 Outbreak, of Part II of this report. 11 Table of Contents We purchase some of the components and assemblies that we include in our products from single source suppliers. We believe that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these components. Nevertheless, any prolonged inability to obtain these components could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryWe depend on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and assemblies, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs. Research and Development We believe that our success depends in part on our ability to develop and deliver breakthrough technologies and capabilities to meet our customers ever-more challenging technical requirements. For this reason, we devote significant financial and personnel resources to research and development. Our research and development team is comprised of highly skilled engineers and technologists with extensive experience in megasonic technology, cleaning processes and chemistry, mechanical design, and control system design. To supplement our internal expertise, we have or are currently collaborating with external research and development entities such as International SEMATECH, Shanghai Integrated Circuits Research & Development Center (ICRD), and IMEC on specific areas of interests. We also retain, as technical advisors, several experts in semiconductor technology. For the foreseeable future we are focusing on enhancing our Ultra C SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP tools and integrating additional capabilities to meet and anticipate requirements from our existing and potential customers. Our particular areas of focus include development of the following: new cleaning steps for Ultra C SAPS cleaners for application in logic chips and for DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory technologies; new cleaning steps for Ultra C TEBO cleaners for FinFET in logic chips, gates in DRAM, and deep vias in both 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory technologies; new hardware, including new system platforms, new and additional chamber structures and new chemical blending systems; and new software to integrate new functionalities to improve tool performance. Longer term, we are working on new proprietary process capabilities based on our existing tool hardware platforms. We are also working to integrate our tools with third-party tools in adjacent process areas in the chip manufacturing flow. Our research and development expense totaled $19.1 million or 12.2% of revenue in 2020, $12.9 million, or 12.0% of revenue, in 2019 and $10.4 million, or 13.9% of revenue, in 2018. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing cleaning products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position. Intellectual Property Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We control access to and use of our proprietary technologies, software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, consultants, advisors, customers, partners and suppliers. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. All employees and consultants are required to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment and consulting relationships with us. We also require them to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived or made in connection with the employment or consulting relationship. We have aggressively pursued intellectual property since our founding in 1998. We focus our patent filing efforts in the United States, and, when justified by cost and strategic importance, we file corresponding foreign patent applications in strategic jurisdictions such as the European Union, the PRC, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. Our patent strategy is designed to provide a balance between the need for coverage in our strategic markets and the need to maintain costs at a reasonable level. As of December 31, 2020, we had 28 issued patents, and 30 patents pending, in the United States. These patents carry expiration dates from 2022 through 2039. Many of the US patents and applications have also been filed internationally, in one or more of the European Union, Japan, PRC, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. Specifically, we own patents in wafer cleaning, electro-polishing and plating, wafer preparation, and other semiconductor processing technologies. We have been issued more than 350 patents in the United States, the PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. 12 Table of Contents We manufacture advanced single-wafer cleaning systems equipped with our SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies. Our wafer cleaning technologies are protected by US Patent Numbers 8580042, 8671961, 9070723, 928177, 9492852, 9595457, 9633833, and 10020208 as well as their corresponding international patents. We have 35 patents granted internationally protecting our SAPS technologies. We also have filed 11 international patent applications for key TEBO technologies, and 2 for Tahoe, in accordance with the Patent Cooperation Treaty, in anticipation of filing in the U.S. national phase. In addition to the above core technologies, we have technologies for SFP and ECP that are used in certain of our tools. SFP is an integral part of the electro polishing process. Our technology was a breakthrough in electro-chemical-copper-planarization technology when it was first introduced, because it can polish, stress-free, copper layers used in copper low-K interconnects. Our innovations in SFP and ECP are reflected in US Patent Numbers 6638863, 8518224, and 10227705, and their corresponding international counterparts. We also have technologies in other semiconductor processing areas, such as wafer preparation and some specific processing steps. The wafer preparation technology is covered by US Patent Numbers 8383429 and 9295167. The specific processing steps include US Patent Number 8598039 titled Barrier layer removal method and apparatus, and US Patent Number 10615073 titled method for removing barrier layer for minimizing sidewall recess. To date we have not granted licenses to third parties under the patents described above. Not all of these patents have been implemented in products. We may enter into licensing or cross-licensing arrangements with other companies in the future. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Our customers could become the target of litigation relating to the patent or other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. Additional information about the risks relating to our intellectual property is provided under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Competition The chip equipment industry is characterized by rapid change and is highly competitive throughout the world. We compete with semiconductor equipment companies located around the world, and we may also face competition from new and emerging companies, including new competitors from the PRC. We consider our principal competitors to be those companies that provide single-wafer cleaning products to the market, including Lam Research Corporation, Kokusai Semiconductor Equipment Corporation, NAURA Technology Group Co., Ltd., , Mujin Electronics Co., Ltd., SCREEN SPE USA, LLC (a subsidiary of SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd.), SEMES Co. Ltd. and Tokyo Electron Ltd. Compared to our company, our current and potential competitors may have: better established credibility and market reputations, longer operating histories, and broader product offerings; significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which may allow them to pursue design, development, manufacturing, sales, marketing, distribution and service support of their products; more extensive customer and partner relationships, which may position them to identify and respond more successfully to market developments and changes in customer demands; and multiple product offerings, which may enable them to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. 13 Table of Contents The principal competitive factors in our market include: performance of products, including particle removal efficiency, rate of damage to wafer structures, high temperature chemistry, throughput, tool uptime and reliability, safety, chemical waste treatment, and environmental impact; service support capability and spare parts delivery time; innovation and development of functionality and features that are must-haves for advanced fabrication nodes; ability to anticipate customer requirements, especially for advanced process nodes of less than 45nm; ability to identify new process applications; brand recognition and reputation; and skill and capability of personnel, including design engineers, manufacturing engineers and technicians, application engineers, and service engineers. In addition, semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new equipment into semiconductor production lines. Some manufacturers began fabricating chips for the 10nm node in 2017 and the 7nm node in 2018, and we have one customer that is evaluating implementation of our equipment at these nodes. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular suppliers equipment and qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that selection for that specific production application and technology node as long as the suppliers products demonstrate performance to specification in the installed base. Accordingly, we may experience difficulty in selling to a given manufacturer if that manufacturer has qualified a competitors equipment. If, however, that cleaning equipment constrains chip yield, we expect, based on our experience to date, that the manufacturer will evaluate implementing new equipment that cleans more effectively. We focus on the high-end fabrication market with advanced nodes, and we believe we compete favorably with respect to the factors described above. Most of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products using jet spray technology, which has relatively poor particle removal efficiency for random defects less than 30nm in size and presents increased risk of damage to the fragile patterned architectures of wafers at advanced process nodes. Certain of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products with megasonic cleaning capability, but we believe these products, which use conventional megasonic technology, are unable to maintain energy dose uniformity on the entire wafer and often lack the ability to repeat the requisite uniform energy dose wafer to wafer in production, resulting in poor efficiency in removing random defects, longer processing time and greater loss of material. In addition, these conventional megasonic products generate transient cavitation, which results in more incidents of damage to wafer structures with feature sizes of 70nm or less. We design our cleaning tools equipped with our proprietary SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies, which we believe offer better performance, much less chemical consumption, and lower cost of consumables, including at advanced process nodes of 22nm or less. Employees and Human Capital As of December 31, 2020, we had 543 full-time equivalent employees, of whom 59 were in administration, 127 were in manufacturing, 216 were in research and development, and 141 were in sales and marketing and customer services. Of these employees, 485 were located in mainland China and the Taiwan region, 49 were located in Korea and 9 were based in the United States. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization or subject to any collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. We compete in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment industry, with operations principally in the PRC. Attracting, developing, and retaining skilled and experienced employees in research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and other positions is crucial to our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to recruit and retain such employees depends on a number of factors, including our corporate culture and work environment, informed by our values and behaviors, our corporate philosophy of talent development and career opportunities, and compensation and benefits. To attract and retain qualified employees and key talent, we offer total compensation packages that are competitive with comparable companies, particularly in the PRC and, specifically, Shanghai. We provide training and development programs to our employees, and we have trained many of our key engineers and managers for more than a decade. Retention of these key employees is critical to secure our future growth and technology development. To assist in employee retention and recruitment, we intend to offer employee housing in the Lingang region of Shanghai in connection with ACM Shanghais recent acquisition of a land use right in Lingang, where we began construction of a new research and development center and factory in July 2020. When it comes to employee safety, we are committed to providing a safe work environment for our employees that meets or exceeds local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have augmented certain of our normal business practices to ensure that we promote health and safety for our employees. We have established safety policies and protocols, and we regularly update our employees with respect to any changes. A majority of our workforce provide services that cannot be performed remotely, and we have prioritized the health of those individuals that continue to work at our facilities. We have provided personal protective equipment and cleaning supplies. We require masks to be worn in our facilities and have prohibited all non-essential domestic and international travel for all employees. We have also provided general information updates and support for our employees to ensure that they have resources and information to protect their health and that of those around them, including their families and co-workers. Environmental Severe weather events, including earthquakes, fires, floods, heat waves, hurricanes and other environmental disasters, could pose a threat to our manufacturing and research and development activities through physical damage to our operating facilities or equipment or disruption of power supply or telecommunications infrastructure. The frequency and intensity of severe weather events are reportedly increasing throughout the world as part of broader climate changes. Global weather pattern changes may also pose long-term risks of physical impacts to our business. We maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that would be implemented to help us recover in the event of severe weather events that interrupt our business. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsGeneralOur production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. Concerns about climate change have resulted in various laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions and address other environmental concerns. In recent years, the PRC, where our production facilities are located, has undertaken comprehensive sustainability initiatives that are requiring companies to meet new environmental standards and deal with higher energy and other production costs. Environmental laws and regulations may impose new or unexpected either directly through, for example, higher energy costs or indirectly through increased costs of compliance or of failing to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations might increase the cost of construction, maintenance and operation of our new research and development center and factory in the Lingang region of Shanghai. We do not currently expect that existing or pending climate change laws and regulations will be material to our results of operations in the foreseeable future. Climate change could, however, have a direct effect on our customer base of semiconductor fabricators, whose operations typically require copious quantities of power and water and a number of chemicals. Chip fabrication operations often result in significant amounts of wastewater, which can contain a number of harmful contaminants, including antimony, arsenic, hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide, that historically have resulted in groundwater pollution and related violations of environmental laws. Moreover, water and chemical demands for semiconductor fabrication are expected to increase with the production of more advanced chips at smaller process nodes. As a result, some leading chip fabricators have begun to invest in conservation and treatment technologies for water and chemicals. We have designed our wet cleaning front-end processing tools to require significantly reduced levels of environmentally harmful chemicals, which helps customers face increased environmental laws and regulations. SAPS and TEBO technologies use environmentally friendly dilute chemicals, such as dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, ozonated de-ionized water and functional de-ionized water with dissolved hydrogen. In interconnect and barrier metals applications based on SAPS technology, for example, these chemical solutions take the place of chemicals such as piranha solution, a high-temperature mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide used by conventional wet wafer cleaning processes. Similarly, Tahoe technology delivers high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. For additional information, see Our Technology and Product OfferingsWet Cleaning Equipment for Front End Production Processes. 14 Table of Contents Available Information We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our website at www.acmrcsh.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should note that we announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our website (www.acmrcsh.com), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors to review the information we post on these channels. We may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.acmrcsh.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 1. Financial Statements of Part I above, before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to a number of risks, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The risks are discussed more fully below and include, but are not limited to, the risks summarized below. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry our limited operating income; our potential future needs for additional capital that may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us; the cyclicality in the semiconductor industry that may lead to substantial variations in demand for our products, industry manufacturers of integrated circuits, or chips, adopting our Space Alternated Phase Shift or SAPS, Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation or TEBO, Tahoe and Electro-Chemical Plating or ECP, technologies and Furnace our single-wafer wet cleaning equipment and other capital equipment, or tools; our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP technologies not achieving widespread market acceptance; our ability to continue to enhance our existing single-wafer wet cleaning tools and identifying and entering new product markets; our ability to establish and maintain a reputation for credibility and product quality; our ability to expand our customer base; our dependence on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; our long and unpredictable sales cycle, including our incurrence of significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all; difficulties in forecasting demand for our tools; our reliance on third parties to manufacture significant portions of our tools and our ability to manage our relationships with these parties; any shortage of components or subassemblies, which could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us; our dependence on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and subassemblies; our dependence on our Chief Executive Officer and President and other senior management and key employees. Regulatory Risks changes in government trade policies that could limit the demand for our tools and increase the cost of our tools; regulatory action limiting our ability to sell our tools to Chinese customers; changes in political and economic policies with respect to the Peoples Republic of China or PRC; the inability of the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, to inspect our auditor, as a registered public accounting firm operating in the PRC and the adoption of proposed legislation related to companies operating in restrictive markets Risks Related to Our STAR Market Listing our ability to implement our strategy to expand our PRC operations by completing an initial public offering and listing of shares of ACM Shanghai on the Shanghai Stock Exchanges Sci-Tech innovAtion boaRd, or STAR Market; our ability to achieve the results contemplated by our business strategy and our strategy for growth in the PRC related to the STAR Market listing; the effect of ACM Shanghais status as a publicly traded company that is controlled, but less than wholly owned, by ACM Research; our ability to manage potentially inconsistent accounting and disclosure requirements of ACM Research and ACM Shanghai if the planned listing initial public offering of shares of ACM Shanghai in the PRC, which we refer to as the STAR IPO, in connection with the planned listing, which we refer to as the STAR Listing, of ACM Shanghai shares on the STAR Market are completed; Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Data Security our ability to protect our intellectual property, including in the PRC; breaches of our cybersecurity systems; 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the COVID19 Outbreak impacts on our global supply chain due to the COVID19 outbreak; the impact of the COVID19 outbreak on our currently planned projects and investments in the PRC, including the STAR IPO. Risks Related to Ownership of Class A Common Stock the volatility in the market price of Class A common stock; manipulative short sellers of our stock, which may drive down the market price of our Class A common stock and could result in litigation; the difficulty to predict the effect of the proposed STAR Listing and STAR IPO on the Class A common stock; the dual class structure of Class A common stock, which has the effect of concentrating voting control with our executive officers and directors; the limited experience of our management team managing a public company, including a large accelerated filer. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have generated limited operating income in the past, and if our revenue does not meet our expectations in future years we may not be able to maintain or increase our profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in 1998. We generated net income of $21.7 million in 2020, $19.5 million in 2019 and $6.6 million in 2018, but incurred net losses in every year from 1998 to 2015 and in 2017. We have a limited history of generating meaningful levels of revenue, and we expect our costs to increase in future periods. If we are unable to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. Our revenue was $156.6 million in 2020, $107.5 million in 2019 and $74.6 million in 2018, but totaled only $36.5 million in 2017, $27.4 million in 2016 and $31.2 million in 2015. Our ability to generate significant revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: achieve wider market acceptance of Ultra C equipment based on SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technology; increase our customer base in the PRC and globally, including the establishment of relationships with companies in the United States; continue to expand our supplier relationships with third parties; and establish and maintain our reputation for providing efficient on-time delivery of high quality products. We expect to expend increasing levels of financial and other resources on: research and development, including continued investments in our research and development team; sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our sales organization, both domestically and internationally, building our brand, and providing our tools for evaluation by customers; the cost of goods being manufactured and sold for our installed base; and expansion of field service. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. If we fail to regain and sustain profitability on a continuing basis, we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations or even shut down. We may require additional capital in the future and we cannot give any assurance that such capital will be available at all or available on terms acceptable to us and, if it is available, additional capital raised by us may dilute holders of Class A common stock. We may need to raise funds in the future, depending on many factors, including: our sales growth; the costs of applying our existing technologies to new or enhanced products; the costs of developing new technologies and introducing new products; 17 Table of Contents the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; the costs associated with our expansion, including capital expenditures and Lingang-related land purchases and deposits, and with increasing our sales and marketing and service and support efforts, and with expanding our geographic operations; our ability to continue to obtain governmental subsidies for developmental projects in the future; future debt repayment obligations; and the number and timing of any future acquisitions. To the extent that our existing sources of cash, together with any cash generated from operations, are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funding is not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies and reducing our product development efforts, or to forego acquisition opportunities. Proceeds received by ACM Shanghai from the initial placements of shares with PRC investors and from the planned listing initial public offering of shares of ACM Shanghai in the PRC, which we refer to as the STAR IPO, in connection with the planned listing, which we refer to as the STAR Listing, of ACM Shanghai shares on the STAR Market will be used to grow and support our PRC operations. Those proceeds generally will not be available for distribution to ACM Research. Under existing PRC laws and regulations, it may be difficult, if not impossible, for ACM Research to be able to receive dividends comprised of funds generated by ACM Shanghai and, even if such dividends can be paid from the PRC to the United States, after the completion of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, any such dividends can be paid to ACM Research only if other holders of ACM Shanghai shares receive their pro rata dividends. As a result, it is unlikely that funds raised or generated by ACM Shanghai will be readily distributable to ACM Research. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Furthermore, the holders of these new securities or debt may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A common stock. In addition, any preferred equity issuance or debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of Class A common stock. Our quarterly revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, you should not rely upon our past quarterly financial results as indicators of future performance. Any variations in our quarter-to-quarter performance may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by a variety of factors, including: the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and the related impact on the purchase of equipment used in the manufacture of chips; the timing of purchases of our tools by chip fabricators, which order types of tools based on multi-year capital plans under which the number and dollar amount of tool purchases can vary significantly from year to year; the relatively high average selling price of our tools and our dependence on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any period, whereby the timing and volume of purchase orders or cancellations from our customers could significantly reduce our revenue for that period; the significant expenditures required to customize our products often exceed the deposits received from our customers; the lead time required to manufacture our tools; the timing of recognizing revenue due to the timing of shipment and acceptance of our tools; our ability to sell additional tools to existing customers; the changes in customer specifications or requirements; the length of our product sales cycle; changes in our product mix, including the mix of systems, upgrades, spare parts and service; the timing of our product releases or upgrades or announcements of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors, including changes in customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; our ability to enhance our tools with new and better functionality that meet customer requirements and changing industry trends; constraints on our suppliers capacity; our ability to sell our tools to Chinese customers due to regulatory restrictions, including the addition of our customers to the Entity List; 18 Table of Contents the timing of investments in research and development related to releasing new applications of our technologies and new products; delays in the development and manufacture of our new products and upgraded versions of our products and the market acceptance of these products when introduced; our ability to control costs, including operating expenses and the costs of the components and subassemblies used in our products; the costs related to the acquisition and integration of product lines, technologies or businesses; and the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, including defending our intellectual property against third-party claims or litigation. Seasonality has played an increasingly important role in the market for chip manufacturing tools. The period of November through February has been a particularly weak period historically for manufacturers of chip tools, in part because capital equipment needed to support manufacturing of chips for the December holidays usually needs to be in the supply chain by no later than October and chip makers in Asia often wait until after Chinese, or Lunar, New Year, which occurs in January or February, before implementing their capital acquisition plans. The timing of new product releases also has an impact on seasonality, with the acquisition of manufacturing equipment occurring six to nine months before a new release. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them could cause our operating results to vary widely. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our quarterly revenue accurately. Our results of operations for any quarter may not be indicative of results for future quarters and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Variability in our periodic operating results could lead to volatility in our stock price. Because a substantial proportion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, our results of operations will suffer if revenue falls below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of Class A common stock to decline. Moreover, as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our operating results might not meet our announced guidance or expectations of public market analysts or investors, in which case the price of Class A common stock could decrease significantly. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry is likely to lead to substantial variations in demand for our products, and as a result our operating results could be adversely affected. The chip industry has historically been cyclic and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends upon the capital spending of chip manufacturers, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for chips. During industry downturns, chip manufacturers often have excess manufacturing capacity and may experience reductions in profitability due to lower sales and increased pricing pressure for their products. As a result, chip manufacturers generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenue from our customers, our operating results will suffer and we could experience operating losses. Conversely, during industry upturns we must successfully increase production output to meet expected customer demand. This may require us or our suppliers, including third-party contractors, to order additional inventory, hire additional employees and expand manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to respond to a rapid increase in demand for our tools on a timely basis, or if we misjudge the timing, duration or magnitude of such an increase in demand, we may lose business to our competitors or incur increased costs disproportionate to any gains in revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The PRC government is implementing focused policies, including state-led investment initiatives, that aim to create and support an independent domestic semiconductor supply chain spanning from design to final system production. If these policies, which include loans and subsidies, result in lower demand for equipment than is expected by equipment manufacturers, the resulting overcapacity in the chip manufacturing equipment market could lead to excess inventory and price discounting that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 19 Table of Contents Our success will depend on industry chip manufacturers adopting our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP technologies. To date our strategy for commercializing our tools has been to place them with selected industry leaders in the manufacturing of memory and logic chips, the two largest chip categories, to enable those leading manufacturers to evaluate our technologies, and then leverage our reputation to gain broader market acceptance. In order for these industry leaders to adopt our tools, we need to establish our credibility by demonstrating the differentiated, innovative nature of our SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies. Our SAPS technology has been tested and purchased by industry leaders, but has not achieved, and may never achieve, widespread market acceptance. We have initiated a similar commercialization process for our TEBO technology with a selected group of industry leaders. If these leading manufacturers do not agree that our technologies add significant value over conventional technologies or do not otherwise accept and use our tools, we may need to spend a significant amount of time and resources to enhance our technologies or develop new technologies. Even if these leading manufacturers adopt our technologies, other manufacturers may not choose to accept and adopt our tools and our products may not achieve widespread adoption. Any of the above factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP technologies do not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to compete effectively. The commercial success of our tools will depend, in part, on gaining substantial market acceptance by chip manufacturers. Our ability to gain acceptance for our products will depend upon a number of factors, including: our ability to demonstrate the differentiated, innovative nature of our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP technologies and the advantages of our tools over those of our competitors; compatibility of our tools with existing or potential customers manufacturing processes and products; the level of customer service available to support our products; and the experiences our customers have with our products. In addition, obtaining orders from new customers may be difficult because many chip manufacturers have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. Chip manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wet processing equipment into a chip production line. Due, in part, to the cost of manufacturing equipment and the investment necessary to integrate a particular manufacturing process, a chip manufacturer that has selected a particular suppliers equipment and qualified that equipment for production typically continues to use that equipment for the specific production application and process node, which is the minimum line width on a chip, as long as that equipment continues to meet performance specifications. Some of our potential and existing customers may prefer larger, more established vendors from which they can purchase equipment for a wider variety of process steps than our tools address. Further, because the cleaning process with our TEBO equipment can be up to five times longer than cleaning processes based on other technologies, we must convince chip manufacturers of the innovative, differentiated nature of our technologies and the benefits associated with using our tools. If we are unable to obtain new customers and continue to achieve widespread market acceptance of our tools, then our business, operations, financial results and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. If we do not continue to enhance our existing single-wafer wet cleaning tools and achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to compete effectively. We operate in an industry that is subject to evolving standards, rapid technological changes and changes in customer demands. Additionally, if process nodes continue to shrink to ever-smaller dimensions and conventional two-dimensional chips reach their critical performance limitations, the technology associated with manufacturing chips may advance to a point where our Ultra C equipment based on SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe, and ECP technologies becomes obsolete. Accordingly, the future of our business will depend in large part upon the continuing relevance of our technological capabilities, our ability to interpret customer and market requirements in advance of tool deliveries, and our ability to introduce in a timely manner new tools that address chip makers requirements for cost-effective cleaning solutions. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources developing new tools and enhancing existing tools. Our ability to introduce and market successfully any new or enhanced cleaning equipment is subject to a wide variety of challenges during the tools development, including the following: accurate anticipation of market requirements, changes in technology and evolving standards; the availability of qualified product designers and technologies needed to solve difficult design challenges in a cost-effective, reliable manner; our ability to design products that meet chip manufacturers cost, size, acceptance and specification criteria, and performance requirements; the ability and availability of suppliers and third-party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver the critical components and subassemblies of our tools in a timely manner; market acceptance of our customers products, and the lifecycle of those products; and our ability to deliver products in a timely manner within our customers product planning and deployment cycle. 20 Table of Contents Certain enhancements to our Ultra C equipment in future periods may reduce demand for our pre-existing tools. As we introduce new or enhanced cleaning tools, we must manage the transition from older tools in order to minimize disruptions in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older tool inventories and ensure timely delivery of sufficient supplies of new tools to meet customer demand. Furthermore, product introductions could delay purchases by customers awaiting arrival of our new products, which could cause us to fail to meet our expected level of production orders for pre-existing tools. Our success will depend on our ability to identify and enter new product markets. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources identifying new product markets in addition to the market for cleaning solutions and in developing new products for entry into these markets. Our TEBO technology took eight years to develop, and development of any new technology could require a similar, or even longer, period of time. Product development requires significant investments in engineering hours, third-party development costs, prototypes and sample materials, as well as sales and marketing expenses, which will not be recouped if the product launch is unsuccessful. We may fail to predict the needs of other markets accurately or develop new, innovative technologies to address those needs. Further, we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may be more costly to develop, may fail to meet the requirements of the market, or may be adopted slower than we expect. If we are not able to introduce new products successfully, our inability to gain market share in new product markets could adversely affect our ability to sustain our revenue growth or maintain our current revenue levels. If we fail to establish and maintain a reputation for credibility and product quality, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We must develop and maintain a market reputation for innovative, differentiated technologies and high quality, reliable products in order to attract new customers and achieve widespread market acceptance of our products. Our market reputation is critical because we compete against several larger, more established competitors, many of which supply equipment for a larger number of process steps than we do to a broader customer base in an industry with a limited number of customers. In these circumstances, traditional marketing and branding efforts are of limited value, and our success depends on our ability to provide customers with reliable and technically sophisticated products. If the limited customer base does not perceive our products and services to be of high quality and effectiveness, our reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our ability to achieve our targeted growth. We operate in a highly competitive industry and many of our competitors are larger, better-established, and have significantly greater operating and financial resources than we have. The chip equipment industry is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition throughout the world in each of the markets we serve. Many of our current and potential competitors have, among other things: greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources; established credibility and market reputations; longer operating histories; broader product offerings; more extensive service offerings, including the ability to have large inventories of spare parts available near, or even at, customer locations; local sales forces; and more extensive geographic coverage. These competitors may also have the ability to offer their products at lower prices by subsidizing their losses in wet cleaning with profits from other lines of business in order to retain current or obtain new customers. Among other things, some competitors have the ability to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products. Many of our competitors have more extensive customer and partner relationships than we do and may therefore be in a better position to identify and respond to market developments and changes in customer demands. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. If we are not able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively affected. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There are also a limited number of potential customers for our products. The chip manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, and we derive most of our revenue from a limited number of customers. A total of three customers accounted for 75.8% of our revenue in 2020, 73.8% of our revenue in 2019 and 87.6% of our revenue in 2018. 21 Table of Contents As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customer base, our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate, and any cancellation of orders or any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases or the acceptance of shipped products by our larger customers could materially affect our revenue and results of operations in any quarterly period. We may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue from our larger customers or offset the discontinuation of concentrated purchases by our larger customers with purchases by new or existing customers. We expect a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our results of operations may fluctuate materially as a result of such larger customers buying patterns. Thus, our business success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with our customers. The loss of any of our key customers for any reason, or a change in our relationship with any of our key customers, including a significant delay or reduction in their purchases, may cause a significant decrease in our revenue, which we may not be able to recapture due to the limited number of potential customers. We have seen, and may see in the future, consolidation of our customer base. Industry consolidation generally has negative implications for equipment suppliers, including a reduction in the number of potential customers, a decrease in aggregate capital spending and greater pricing leverage on the part of consumers over equipment suppliers. Continued consolidation of the chip industry could make it more difficult for us to grow our customer base, increase sales of our products and maintain adequate gross margins. Our customers do not enter into long-term purchase commitments, and they may decrease, cancel or delay their projected purchases at any time. In accordance with industry practice, our sales are on a purchase order basis, which we seek to obtain three to four months in advance of the expected product delivery date. Until a purchase order is received, we do not have a binding purchase commitment. Our customers to date have provided us with non-binding one- to two-year forecasts of their anticipated demands, but those forecasts can be changed at any time, without any required notice to us. Because the lead-time needed to produce a tool customized to a customers specifications can extend up to six months, we may need to begin production of tools based on non-binding forecasts, rather than waiting to receive a binding purchase order. No assurance can be made that a customers forecast will result in a firm purchase order within the time period we expect, or at all. If we do not accurately predict the amount and timing of a customers future purchases, we risk expending time and resources on producing a customized tool that is not purchased by a particular customer, which may result in excess or unwanted inventory, or we may be unable to fulfill an order on the schedule required by a purchase order, which would result in foregone sales. Customers may place purchase orders that exceed forecasted amounts, which could result in delays in our delivery time and harm our reputation. In the future a customer may decide not to purchase our tools at all, may purchase fewer tools than it did in the past or may otherwise alter its purchasing patterns, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a small number of large customers. Our customers make major purchases periodically as they add capacity or otherwise implement technology upgrades. If any significant customers cancel, delay or reduce orders, our operating results could suffer. We may incur significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all, due to the costs and length of research, development, manufacturing and customer evaluation process cycles. We often incur significant research and development costs for products that are purchased by our customers only after much, or all, of the cost has been incurred or that may never be purchased. We allow some new customers, or existing customers considering new products, to evaluate products without any payment becoming due unless the product is ultimately accepted, which means we may invest a significant amount in manufacturing a tool that may never be accepted and purchased or may be purchased months or even years after production. In the past we have borrowed money in order to fund first-time purchase order equipment and next-generation evaluation equipment. When we deliver evaluation equipment, or a first tool, we may not recognize revenue or receive payment for the tool for 24 months or longer. Even returning customers may take as long as six months to make any payments. If our sales efforts are unsuccessful after expending significant resources, or if we experience delays in completing sales, our future cash flow, revenue and profitability may fluctuate or be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, which results in variability of our financial performance and may require us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result, all of which could adversely affect our profitability. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of our sales cycle. A sales cycle is the period between initial contact with a prospective customer and any sale of our tools. Our sales process involves educating customers about our tools, participating in extended tool evaluations and configuring our tools to customer-specific needs, after which customers may evaluate the tools. The length of our sales cycle, from initial contact with a customer to the execution of a purchase order, is generally 6 to 24 months. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities and make investments in evaluation equipment, all of which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs or if the sale is delayed as a result of extended qualification processes or delays from our customers customers. The duration or ultimate success of our sales cycle depends on factors such as: efforts by our sales force; the complexity of our customers manufacturing processes and the compatibility of our tools with those processes; our customers internal technical capabilities and sophistication; and our customers capital spending plans and processes, including budgetary constraints, internal approvals, extended negotiations or administrative delays. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale to a potential customer or if we can increase sales to our existing customers. As a result, we may not recognize revenue from our sales efforts for extended periods of time, or at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed. In addition, we believe that the length of the sales cycle and intensity of the evaluation process may increase for those current and potential customers that centralize their purchasing decisions. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our tools may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory items that may not be used. We need to manage our inventory of components and production of tools effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers needs is difficult. Our tool demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, including non-binding forecasts received from our customers years in advance, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. Inventory levels for components necessary to build our tools in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our tools or if our manufacturing partners fail to supply components we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Such shortages might delay production or shipments to customers and may cause us to lose sales. These shortages may also harm our credibility, diminish the loyalty of our channel partners or customers. A failure to prevent inventory shortages or accurately predict customers needs could result in decreased revenue and gross margins and harm our business. Some of our products and supplies may become obsolete or be deemed excess while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications, changes in product structure, components or bills of material as a result of engineering changes, or a decrease in customer demand. We also have exposure to contractual liabilities to our contract manufacturers for inventories purchased by them on our behalf, based on our forecasted requirements, which may become excess or obsolete. Our inventory balances also represent an investment of cash. To the extent our inventory turns are slower than we anticipate based on historical practice, our cash conversion cycle extends and more of our cash remains invested in working capital. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off non-saleable or obsolete inventory. Any such charges we incur in future periods could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenue and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. If our tools contain defects or do not meet customer specifications, we could lose customers and revenue. Highly complex tools such as our may develop defects during the manufacturing and assembly process. We may also experience difficulties in customizing our tools to meet customer specifications or detecting defects during the development and manufacturing of our tools. Some of these failures may not be discovered until we have expended significant resources in customizing our tools, or until our tools have been installed in our customers production facilities. These quality problems could harm our reputation as well as our customer relationships in the following ways: 23 Table of Contents our customers may delay or reject acceptance of our tools that contain defects or fail to meet their specifications; we may suffer customer dissatisfaction, negative publicity and reputational damage, resulting in reduced orders or otherwise damaging our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; we may incur substantial costs as a result of warranty claims or service obligations or in order to enhance the reliability of our tools; the attention of our technical and management resources may be diverted; we may be required to replace defective systems or invest significant capital to resolve these problems; and we may be required to write off inventory and other assets related to our tools. In addition, defects in our tools or our inability to meet the needs of our customers could cause damage to our customers products or manufacturing facilities, which could result in claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims from our customers. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert managements attention from our ongoing operations. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Warranty claims in excess of our estimates could adversely affect our business. We have provided warranties against manufacturing defects of our tools that range from 12 to 36 months in duration. Our product warranty requires us to provide labor and parts necessary to repair defects. As of December 31, 2020, we had accrued $4.0 million in liability contingency for potential warranty claims. Warranty claims substantially in excess of our expectations, or significant unexpected costs associated with warranty claims, could harm our reputation and could cause customers to decline to place new or additional orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to manufacture significant portions of our tools and our failure to manage our relationships with these parties could harm our relationships with our customers, increase our costs, decrease our sales and limit our growth. Our tools are complex and require components and subassemblies having a high degree of reliability, accuracy and performance. We rely on third parties to manufacture most of the subassemblies and supply most of the components used in our tools. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control could result in shortages or quality assurance problems. These issues could delay shipments of our tools, increase our testing costs or lead to costly failure claims. We do not have long-term supply contracts with some of our suppliers, and those suppliers are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. In addition, we attempt to maintain relatively low inventories and acquire subassemblies and components only as needed. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party suppliers, including: potential price increases; capacity shortages or other inability to meet any increase in demand for our products; reduced control over manufacturing process for components and subassemblies and delivery schedules; limited ability of some suppliers to manufacture and sell subassemblies or parts in the volumes we require and at acceptable quality levels and prices, due to the suppliers relatively small operations and limited manufacturing resources; increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and limited warranties on subassemblies and components supplied to us. Any delays in the shipment of our products due to our reliance on third-party suppliers could harm our relationships with our customers. In addition, any increase in costs due to our suppliers increasing the price they charge us for subassemblies and components or arising from our need to replace our current suppliers that we are unable to pass on to our customers could negatively affect our operating results. Any shortage of components or subassemblies could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us, which could harm our business. The ability of our manufacturers to supply our tools is dependent, in part, upon the availability certain components and subassemblies. Our manufacturers may experience shortages in the availability of such components or subassemblies, which could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us. Any shortage of components or subassemblies or any inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase the costs for our products or impair our ability to ship orders in a timely cost-efficient manner. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and subassemblies, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components and subassemblies used in our tools. Certain components and subassemblies of our tools have only been purchased from our current suppliers to date and changing the source of those components and subassemblies may result in disruptions during the transition process and entail significant delay and expense. We rely on: Product Systems, Inc., or ProSys, as the sole supplier of megasonic transducers, a key subassembly used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment; Ninebell Co., Ltd., or Ninebell, as the principal supplier of robotic delivery system subassemblies used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment; and Advanced Electric Co. Inc., as a key supplier of valves used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment. An adverse change to our relationship with any of these suppliers would disrupt our production of single-wafer cleaning equipment and could cause substantial harm to our business. With some of these suppliers, we do not have long-term agreements and instead purchase components and subassemblies through a purchase order process. As a result, these suppliers may stop supplying us components and subassemblies, limit the allocation of supply and equipment to us due to increased industry demand or significantly increase their prices at any time with little or no advance notice. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could also result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and our inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Moreover, some of our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could prevent them from supplying us with components or subassemblies used in the design and manufacture of our products. In addition, our suppliers, including our sole supplier ProSys, may experience manufacturing delays or shut downs due to circumstances beyond their control, such as labor issues, political unrest or natural disasters. Any supply deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future, experience delays or reductions in supply shipments, which could reduce our revenue and profitability. If key components or materials are unavailable, our costs would increase and our revenue would decline. We have depended on PRC governmental subsidies to help fund our technology development since 2008, and our failure to obtain additional subsidies may impede our development of new technologies and may increase our cost of capital, either of which could make it difficult for us to expand our product base. We received subsidies from local and central governmental authorities in the PRC in 2008, 2009, 2014, 2018, 2019, and 2020. These grants have provided a majority of the funding for our development and commercialization of stress-free polishing and electro copper-plating technologies. If we are unable to obtain similar governmental subsidies for development projects in the future, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements, which could force us to reduce our efforts to develop technologies beyond SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe and ECP. The success of our business will depend on our ability to manage any future growth. We have experienced rapid growth in our business recently due, in part, to an expansion of our product offerings and an increase in the number of customers that we serve. For example, our headcount grew by 50% in 2020, 32% in 2019, and 35% in 2018. We will seek to continue to expand our operations in the future, including by adding new offices, locations and employees. Managing our growth has placed and could continue to place a significant strain on our management, other personnel and our infrastructure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, enhance our technological capabilities, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. In addition, any inability to manage our growth effectively could result in operating inefficiencies that could impair our competitive position and increase our costs disproportionately to the amount of growth we achieve. To manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel, service and support personnel and financial and information technology personnel; manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties; and continue to enhance our information technology infrastructure, systems and controls. Our organizational structure has become more complex, including as a result of preparations for the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO. We will need to continue to scale and adapt our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures, at both ACM Research and ACM Shanghai. The continued expansion of our infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and management resources before our revenue increases and without any assurances that our revenue will increase. 25 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and President and other senior management and key employees. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and continued efforts of our management, technical and sales personnel, including in particular Dr. David H. Wang, the Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of ACM Research. All of our senior management are at-will employees, which means either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. If one or more of our other senior management were unable or unwilling to continue their employment with us, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner. Moreover, in connection with planning for the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, ACM Shanghai is now managed by a group of officers separate from those of ACM Research and those officers owe fiduciary duties to the various stakeholders of ACM Shanghai. We do not have employment or retention agreements with, or maintain key person life insurance policies on, any of our employees. Our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our senior management may join a competitor or form a competing company. The loss of Dr. Wang or other key management personnel, including our Chief Financial Officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could put us at a competitive disadvantage and prevent us from effectively growing our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. There is substantial competition for experienced management, technical and sales personnel in the chip equipment industry. If qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain for compensation-related or other reasons, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs. New hires may require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity and may not become as productive as we expect. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to utilize certain U.S. and state net operating loss carryforwards may be limited under applicable tax laws. As of December 31, 2020, we had net operating loss carryforward amounts, or NOLs, of $45.0 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $545,000 for U.S. state income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2019, we had net operating loss carryforward amounts, or NOLs, of $12.2 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $559, 000 for U.S. state income tax purposes. The federal and state NOLs will expire at various dates in the future. Utilization of these NOLs could be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change limitations under U.S. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 and similar U.S. state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation would result in the expiration of the NOLs before utilization. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, including in connection with our initial public offering and concurrent private placement in November 2017, our follow on public offering in August 2019, and any future equity issuances. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change. Regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, may cause our existing NOLs to expire or otherwise become unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Additionally, U.S. state NOLs generated in one state cannot be used to offset income generated in another U.S. state. For these reasons, we may be limited in our ability to realize tax benefits from the use of our NOLs, even if our profitability would otherwise allow for it. Acquisitions that we pursue in the future, whether or not consummated, could result in other operating and financial difficulties. In the future we may seek to acquire additional product lines, technologies or businesses in an effort to increase our growth, enhance our ability to compete, complement our product offerings, enter new and adjacent markets, obtain access to additional technical resources, enhance our intellectual property rights or pursue other competitive opportunities. We may also make investments in certain key suppliers to align our interests with such suppliers. If we seek acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. We cannot readily predict the timing or size of our future acquisitions, or the success of any future acquisitions. 26 Table of Contents To the extent that we consummate acquisitions or investments, we may face financial risks as a result, including increased costs associated with merged or acquired operations, increased indebtedness, economic dilution to gross and operating profit and earnings per share, or unanticipated costs and liabilities. Acquisitions may involve additional risks, including: the acquired product lines, technologies or businesses may not improve our financial and strategic position as planned; we may determine we have overpaid for the product lines, technologies or businesses, or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition have changed; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; we may have difficulty retaining the employees with the technical skills needed to enhance and provide services with respect to the acquired product lines or technologies; the acquisition may be viewed negatively by customers, employees, suppliers, financial markets or investors; we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired product lines or technologies with our existing technologies; we may encounter a competitive response, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; we may encounter difficulties related to required CFIUS approval (see also Regulatory and Litigation RisksCertain of our investments may be subject to review by and approval from CFIUS, which may prevent us from taking advantage of investment opportunities that would otherwise be advantageous to our stockholders); we may become a party to product liability or intellectual property infringement claims as a result of our sale of the acquired companys products; we may incur one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges; we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges; our ongoing business and managements attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; and our due diligence process may fail to identify significant existing issues with the target business. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which the industry is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of chip manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. With the consolidation of customers within the industry, the chip capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. Global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our tools, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. As a result, economic downturns could cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including: a decline in demand for our products; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. Fluctuating levels of investment by chip manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenue, operating results and earnings. Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which could result in restructuring charges. Even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. 27 Table of Contents We conduct substantially all of our operations outside the United States and face risks associated with conducting business in foreign markets. Substantially all of our sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018 were made to customers outside the United States. Our manufacturing center has been located in Shanghai since 2006 and substantially all of our operations are located in the PRC. We expect that all of our significant activities will remain outside the United States in the future. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, including: imposition of, or adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, such as work stoppages and travel restrictions imposed in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic; the need to comply with the import laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions, including a range of U.S. import laws; potentially adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we conduct business; competition from local suppliers with which potential customers may prefer to do business; seasonal reduction in business activity, such as during the Lunar New Year in parts of Asia and in other periods in various individual countries; increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rates; reduced protection for intellectual property; longer sales cycles and reliance on indirect sales in certain regions; increased length of time for shipping and acceptance of our products; greater difficulty in responding to customer requests for maintenance and spare parts on a timely basis; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our consolidated financial statements; and general economic conditions, geopolitical events or natural disasters in countries where we conduct our operations or where our customers are located, including political unrest, war, acts of terrorism or responses to such events. In particular, the Asian market is extremely competitive, and chip manufacturers may be aggressive in seeking price concessions from suppliers, including chip equipment manufacturers. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country in which we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, a sizable portion of our costs are denominated in other currencies, principally the Chinese Renminbi and, to a lesser extent, the South Korean Won. Because many of our raw material purchases are denominated in Renminbi while the majority of the purchase orders we receive are denominated in U.S. dollars, exchange rates have a significant effect on our gross margin. We have not engaged in any foreign currency exchange hedging transactions to date, and any strategies that we may use in the future to reduce the adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may not be successful. Our foreign currency exposure with respect to assets and liabilities for which we do not have hedging arrangements could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business. 28 Table of Contents Regulatory Risks Changes in government trade policies could limit the demand for our tools and increase the cost of our tools. General trade tensions between the United States and the PRC escalated beginning in 2018. In each of July, August and September 2018, June and September 2019, and February 2020, the U.S. government imposed a round of new or higher tariffs on specified imported products originating from the PRC in response to what the U.S. government characterizes as unfair trade practices. The PRC government responded to each of these rounds of U.S. tariff changes by imposing new or higher tariffs on specified products imported from the United States. Higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs have been announced or threatened by U.S. and PRC leaders. The imposition of tariffs by the U.S. and PRC governments and the surrounding economic uncertainty may negatively impact the semiconductor industry, including reducing the demand of fabricators for capital equipment such as our tools. Further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, restrictions on exports or other trade barriers, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit the ability of our customers to manufacture or sell semiconductors or to make the manufacture or sale of semiconductors more expensive and less profitable, which could lead those customers to fabricate fewer semiconductors and to invest less in capital equipment such as our tools. In addition, if the PRC were to impose additional tariffs on raw materials, subsystems or other supplies that we source from the United States, our cost for those supplies would increase. As a result of any of the foregoing events, the imposition or new or additional tariffs may limit our ability to manufacture tools, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, or inhibit our ability to sell tools or to purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. Our ability to sell our tools to Chinese customers may be restricted by regulatory actions. The Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce, or BIS, recently has imposed and may continue to impose additional restrictions, including licensing requirements, under the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, with respect to certain PRC companies that impact the supply of U.S. products and certain nonU.S. products incorporating U.S. content, or that are manufactured using certain U.S. technology or software, to such companies and the sourcing of U.S. items by non-U.S. companies for use in manufacturing products for such companies. For example, BIS has recently added a number of PRC entities to the Entity List under the EAR which means that any items subject to the EAR, including certain non-U.S. produced products with U.S. content, require a BIS license for supply to the listed entities. Among other companies, in December 2020, SMIC, one of the largest chip manufacturers in the PRC, was added to the Entity List. Challenges faced by SMIC and its key suppliers as a result of the listing could indirectly impact SMICs demand for, or our ability to supply, our products. We cannot be certain what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to PRC entities, and whether such actions will impact our relationships with our PRC-based customers, including changes to the Entity List restrictions, other export regulations, tariffs or other trade restrictions, or whether the PRC government may take any actions in response to U.S. government action that may adversely affect our ability to do business with our PRC-based customers. Even in the absence of new restrictions, tariffs or trade actions imposed by the U.S. or PRC government, our PRC-based customers may take actions to reduce dependence on the supply of products subject to potential U.S. trade regulations, including our tools, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are unable to predict the duration of the restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or of any additional governmental actions that may impact our relationships with our PRC-based customers, any of which could have a long-term adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to sustain our growth and expansion strategies. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and a substantial majority of our revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant extent by economics, political and legal developments in the PRC. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in the PRC by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, regulating financial services and institutions, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In the past the PRC government has implemented measures to control the pace of economic growth, and similar measures in the future may cause decreased economic activity, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Although the PRC government has been implementing policies to develop an independent domestic semiconductor industry supply chain, there is no guaranteed time frame in which these initiatives will be implemented. We cannot guarantee that the implementation of these policies will result in additional revenue to us or that our presence in the PRC will result in support from the PRC government. To the extent that any capital investment or other assistance from the PRC government is not provided to us, it could be used to promote the products and technologies of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in political and economic policies with respect to the PRC may make it difficult for us to release the benefit of our investments. On November 12, 2020, then-President Trump issued an executive order, or the Order, establishing a new sanctions program designed to prohibit U.S. persons from entering into transactions in certain publicly traded securities, as well as derivatives and securities designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any Communist Chinese military company, or CCMC, as designated by the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, or the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury. Continued ownership of such securities by U.S. persons would be prohibited after a one-year divestment period from the time of designation of the issuer. A number of PRC issuers have been designated under this program and more could be added. On December 3, 2020, SMIC was designated as a CCMC by the DOD. Consequently, ACM Shanghai could be required to divest its ownership of SMIC shares prior to December 3, 2021. If ACM Shanghai is not able to sell its shares of SMIC prior to December 3, 2020, ACM Shanghais continued possession of SMIC securities may subject ACM Shanghai and ACM Research to penalties. Certain implementation matters related to the scope of, and compliance with, the Order have not yet been resolved, and the ultimate application and enforcement of the Order may change due to, among other things, the change in the U.S. Presidential administration. In addition, we may seek to conduct business transactions with SMIC and other entities on the CCMC list in the future. Although the Order does not prohibit commercial relations with CCMC companies other than the securities transactions noted above, certain other export restrictions have been imposed under the Export Administration Regulations on some CCMC companies, including SMIC. These and any similar future U.S. government restrictions on our suppliers or customers may adversely affect our business operations in the PRC, overall company results or our financial condition. Certain of our investments may be subject to review by and approval from CFIUS, which may prevent us from taking advantage of investment opportunities that would otherwise be advantageous to our stockholders. Certain of our investments may be subject to review by and approval from the U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or CFIUS. In the event that CFIUS reviews one or more of the our investments, there can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain or proceed with such investments on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, CFIUS may seek to impose limitations on one or more such investments that may prevent us from maintaining or pursuing investment opportunities that we otherwise would have maintained or pursued, which could adversely affect the performance of our investments and thus our overall performance. Certain of our stockholders may be non-U.S. investors, and in the aggregate, may comprise a substantial portion of our net asset value, which may increase the risks of such limitations being imposed in connection with investments pursued or made by us. Legislative and regulatory changes, including changes to agency practice, in the future may negatively impact our ability to realize value from certain existing and future investments, including by limiting exit opportunities or causing us to favor buyers that we believe are less likely to require CFIUS review, even in circumstances where other buyers may offer better terms or more consideration. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export, economic sanctions, and anti-corruption laws and regulations, that may limit our sales opportunities, expose us to liability and increase our costs. Our products are subject to import and export controls in jurisdictions in which we distribute or sell our products. Import and exports control and economic sanctions laws and regulations include restrictions and prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and on our transfer of parts, components, and related technical information and know-how to certain countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. Various countries regulate the importation of certain products through import permitting and licensing requirements and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. The exportation, re-exportation, transfers within foreign countries and importation of our products, including by our partners, must comply with these laws and regulations, and any violations may result in reputational harm, government investigations and penalties, and a denial or curtailment of exporting. Complying with export control and sanctions laws for a particular sale may be time consuming, may increase our costs, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, or similar laws in other jurisdictions, we and the individuals working for us could incur substantial fines and penalties. Changes in export, sanctions or import laws or regulations may delay the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, require us to spend resources to seek necessary government authorizations or to develop different versions of our products, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, regions, governments, persons or entities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining, retaining or directing business. Our exposure for violating these laws and regulations increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. Our auditor, as a registered public accounting firm operating in the PRC, is not permitted to be inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and consequently investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspections. BDO China Shu Lun Pan Certified Public Accountants LLP, or BDO China, is the independent registered public accounting firm that issued the audit report included in this report in connection with our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. BDO China, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and applicable professional standards. BDO China is located in the PRC. The PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of auditors in the PRC without the approval of PRC authorities, and therefore BDO China, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in the PRC, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013 the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Finance of China pursuant to which the Ministry of Finance established a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in both the PRC and the United States. More specifically, the Memorandum of Understanding provides a mechanism for the parties to request and receive from each other assistance in obtaining documents and information in furtherance of their investigative duties. In addition the PCAOB is engaged in continuing discussions with the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and to audit PRC companies whose securities are listed on U.S. stock exchanges. The PCAOBs inspections of firms outside of the PRC have identified deficiencies in audit procedures and quality control procedures, and such deficiencies may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of BDO China with respect to its audit of our consolidated financial statements may make it more difficult for investors to evaluate BDO Chinas audit procedures and quality control procedures by depriving investors of potential benefits from improvements that could have been facilitated by PCAOB inspections. We could be adversely affected if proposed legislation is adopted regarding improved access to audit and other information and audit inspections of accounting firms, including registered public accounting firms operating in the PRC such as our auditor, or if Nasdaqs proposals requiring additional criteria to companies operating in restrictive markets become effective. BDO China, our independent registered public accounting firm, is not inspected by the PCAOB, as described in the preceding risk factor. ACM is one of 283 companies named in PCAOBs list of Public Companies that are Audit Clients of PCAOB-Registered Firms from Non-U.S. Jurisdictions where the PCAOB is Denied Access to Conduct Inspections. On April 21, 2020, the SEC and the PCAOB issued a joint statement highlighting the significant disclosure, financial reporting and other risks associated with emerging market investments, including the PCAOBs continued inability to inspect audit work papers of auditors in the PRC. This statement is the latest in a series of recent proposed actions: In December 2018 the SEC and the PCAOB issued a joint statement highlighting continued challenges faced by U.S. regulators in their oversight of financial statement audits of U.S.-listed reporting companies with significant operations in the PRC. 31 Table of Contents In June 2019 a bipartisan group of lawmakers introduced bills in both houses of the U.S. Congress that, if passed, would have required the SEC to maintain a list of foreign reporting companies for which the PCAOB is not able to inspect or investigate an auditor report issued by a foreign public accounting firm. The proposed Ensuring Quality Information and Transparency for Abroad-Based Listings on our Exchanges Act, or EQUITABLE Act, would have prescribed increased disclosure requirements for these reporting companies and, beginning in 2025, provided for the delisting from U.S. stock exchanges of reporting companies included on the SECs list for three consecutive years. In May 2020 the U.S. Senate approved a bill entitled the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, which, if also approved by the U.S. House of Representatives, would allow the SEC to delist the stocks of foreign companies listed on US exchanges that are audited by firms not allowed to be inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2020 Nasdaq requested approval by the SEC of proposals that would impact companies with businesses principally administered in jurisdictions defined as restrictive markets, which likely would encompass the PRC. These proposals contemplate, among other things, the application of more stringent listing criteria if a listed companys auditor does not demonstrate a PCAOB inspection record (as is the case with our auditor), employee expertise and training, or geographic or other resources sufficient to perform the companys audit satisfactorily. Examples of more stringent criteria that Nasdaq could apply include requiring: (a) higher levels of equity, assets, earnings or liquidity than are otherwise needed; (b) that any public offering to be underwritten on a firm commitment basis (involving more due diligence by the underwriter); and (c) the imposition of lock-up restrictions on directors and officers to allow market mechanisms to determine an appropriate price for shares before the insiders could sell. Alternatively, Nasdaq could deny continued listing to a company. It remains unclear what further actions the SEC, the PCAOB or Nasdaq will take to address these issues and what impact those actions will have on US companies that have significant operations in the PRC and have securities listed on a U.S. stock exchange. Any such actions could materially affect our operations and stock price, including by resulting in our being de-listed from Nasdaq or being required to engage a new audit firm, which would require significant expense and management time. Risks Related to Our STAR Market Listing If we are unable to implement our strategy to expand our PRC operations by completing an initial public offering and listing on the STAR Market, our ability to strengthen our market position and operations in the PRC, including our ability to increase our revenues and augment our product line, could be materially impaired. In June 2019 we announced plans to complete over the following three years the STAR Listing, which consists of a listing, of shares of ACM Shanghai on the Shanghai Stock Exchanges STAR Market, and the STAR IPO, which would be a concurrent initial public offering of ACM Shanghai shares in the PRC. ACM Shanghai is our principal operating company and, prior to the STAR Listing process, was a wholly owned subsidiary of ACM Research. Following the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, ACM Shanghai will be a majority owned subsidiary of ACM Research. We may not be able to complete the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO for a number of reasons, many of which are outside our control. ACM Shanghai must succeed in obtaining PRC governmental approvals required to permit the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, and one or more of those approvals may be denied, or significantly delayed, by the PRC regulators for reasons outside our control or unknown to us. Similarly, the STAR Listing application may be denied or delayed by the Shanghai Stock Exchange in its discretion. See also Risks Related to the COVID-19 OutbreakThe COVID19 outbreak could negatively impact our currently planned projects and investments in the PRC, including the STAR IPO. If we are unable to complete the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, we may not otherwise be able to realize the advantages to our PRC operations contemplated by our business strategy, including improving our ability to market our products, building our brand in the PRC markets, assisting our sales efforts to new customers and encouraging additional purchases of our tools by existing customers. Because it may be more than three years before we know whether the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO will be completed, we may, in the interim, forego or postpone other alternative actions to strengthen our market position and operations in the PRC. PRC companies are critical to the global semiconductor industry, and our current business is substantially concentrated in the PRC market. Our inability to build, or any delay in growing, our PRC-based operations over the next three years would materially and adversely limit our operations and operating results, including our revenue growth. In addition, during that time, the process underlying the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO could result in significant diversion of management time as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs, which could further impair our ability to expand our business. 32 Table of Contents Even if we complete the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, we may not achieve the results contemplated by our business strategy and our strategy for growth in the PRC may not result in increases in the price of Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that, even if the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO are completed, we will realize any or all of our anticipated benefits of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO. Our completion of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO may not have the anticipated effects of including the strengthening of our market position and operations in the PRC. If the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO are completed, ACM Shanghai will have broad discretion in the use of the proceeds from the initial sales of shares to investors and the proceeds from the STAR IPO, and it may not spend or invest those proceeds in a manner that results in our operating success or with which ACM Research stockholders agree. Our failure to successfully leverage the completion of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO to expand our PRC business could result in a decrease in the price of the Class A common stock, and we cannot assure you that the success of ACM Shanghai will have a an attendant positive effect on the price of the Class A common stock. Completion of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO may not occur until 2022 or later. In the interim, ACM Shanghai may require additional funding from ACM Research in order to proceed to augment its PRC operations, and we cannot give any assurance that such capital will be available from ACM Research at all in terms acceptable to us. Any such inability to obtain funds from ACM Research or other sources may impair the ability of ACM Shanghai to grow its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results and on the price of the Class A common stock. ACM Shanghais status as a publicly traded company that is controlled, but less than wholly owned, by ACM Research could have an adverse effect on us. As the result of actions being taken in connection with the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, ACM Shanghai will no longer be a wholly owned subsidiary of ACM Research, and the interests of ACM Shanghai may diverge from the interests of ACM Research and its other subsidiaries in the future. We may face conflicts of interest in managing, financing or engaging in transactions with ACM Shanghai, or allocating business opportunities between our subsidiaries, including future arrangements for operating subsidiaries other than ACM Shanghai to license and use our intellectual property. Substantially all of our intellectual property has been developed in the PRC and is owned by ACM Shanghai. As we expand our global operations through operating subsidiaries outside of the PRC, those operating subsidiaries may need to license intellectual property from ACM Shanghai in order to operate, and there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not preclude those operating subsidiaries from licensing the required intellectual property from ACM Shanghai on reasonable terms or at all. ACM Research will retain majority ownership of ACM Shanghai after the STAR IPO, but ACM Shanghai will be managed by a separate board of directors and officers and those directors and officers will owe fiduciary duties to the various stakeholders of ACM Shanghai, including shareholders other than ACM Research. In the operation of ACM Shanghais business, there may be situations that arise whereby the directors and officers of ACM Shanghai, in the exercise of their fiduciary duties, take actions that may be contrary to the best interests of ACM Research. In the future, ACM Shanghai may issue options, restricted shares and other forms of share-based compensation to its directors, officers and employees, which could dilute ACM Researchs ownership in ACM Shanghai. In addition, ACM Shanghai may engage in capital raising activities in the future that could further dilute ACM Researchs ownership interest. If the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO are completed, ACM Research and ACM Shanghai both will be public reporting companies but each will be subject to separate, and potentially inconsistent, accounting and disclosure requirements, which may lead to investor confusion or uncertainty that could cause decreased demand for, or fluctuations in the price of, one or both of the companies publicly traded shares. If ACM Shanghai completes the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO, it will be subject to accounting, disclosure and other regulatory requirements of the STAR Market. At the same time, ACM Research will remain subject to accounting, disclosure and other regulatory requirements of the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq. As a result, ACM Research and ACM Shanghai periodically will disclose information simultaneously pursuant to differing laws and regulations. Even though substantially all of the operations of ACM Research are currently conducted through ACM Shanghai, the information disclosed by the two companies will differ, and may differ materially from time to time, due to the distinct, and potentially inconsistent, accounting standards applicable to the two companies and disclosure requirements imposed by securities regulatory authorities, as well as differences in language, culture and expression habit, in composition of investors in the United States and PRC, and in the capital markets of the United States and the PRC. 33 Table of Contents Differing disclosures could lead to confusion or uncertainty among investors in the publicly traded shares of one or both companies. Differences between the price of ACM Shanghai shares on the STAR Market and the price of ACM Research Class A common stock on Nasdaq could lead to increased volatility, as some investors seek to arbitrage price differences. Moreover, such volatility could be exacerbated by the fact that ACM Shanghai shares currently represent substantially all of the assets of ACM Research. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Data Security Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe, SFP and ECP technologies. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our intellectual property, including our SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe, SFP and ECP technologies and the design of our Ultra C equipment, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in additional patents being issued or that issued patents will afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technology, nor can there be any assurance that the patents issued will not be infringed, designed around, or invalidated by third parties. Even issued patents may later be found unenforceable or may be modified or revoked in proceedings instituted by third parties before various patent offices or in courts. The degree of future protection for our intellectual property is uncertain. Only limited protection may be available and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our products and technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we or any of our future development partners will be successful in protecting our product candidates by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. Patent applications may not result in any patents being issued. Patents that may be issued may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked, circumvented, found to be unenforceable or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage. Our competitors may seek or may have already obtained patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use and sell our potential product candidates. The PRC and other countries other than the United States may have patent laws less favorable to patentees than those upheld by U.S. courts, allowing foreign competitors a better opportunity to create, develop and market competing product candidates. In addition, we rely on the protection of our trade secrets and know-how. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with third parties and confidential information and inventions agreements with key employees, customers and suppliers, other parties may still obtain this information or may come upon this information independently. If any of these events occurs or if we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe upon our patents. If our technologies are adopted, we believe that competitors may try to match our technologies and tools in order to compete. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings, including our current suits, could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, found to be unenforceable or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during litigation. In addition, any future patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings will result in additional expense and distraction of our personnel. Most of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources, and they therefore are likely to be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation longer than we could. An adverse outcome in such litigation or proceedings may expose us to loss of our proprietary position. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world, including the PRC, which could materially, negatively affect our business. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our products or proprietary technologies in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States, including the PRC, can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. The significant majority of our intellectual property has been developed in the PRC and is owned by ACM Shanghai. Implementation and enforcement of intellectual property-related laws in the PRC has historically been lacking due primarily to ambiguities in PRC intellectual property law. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights in the PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. As a result, third parties could illegally use the technologies and proprietary processes that we have developed and compete with us, which could negatively affect any competitive advantage we enjoy, dilute our brand and harm our operating results. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, and given the relative unpredictability of the PRCs legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in the PRC, there is no guarantee litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license and may adversely affect our business. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign-issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing products, some of which may contain claims that overlap with the subject matter of our intellectual property. A third party has claimed in the past, and others may claim in the future, that our technology or products infringe their intellectual property. In some instances third parties may initiate litigation against us in an effort to prevent us from using our technology in alleged violation of their intellectual property rights. The risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as our size and the number and scope of our products increase and as our geographic presence and market share expand. Any potential intellectual property claims or litigation commenced against us could: be time consuming and expensive to defend, whether or not meritorious; force us to stop selling products or using technology that allegedly infringes the third partys intellectual property rights; delay shipments of our products; require us to pay damages or settlement fees to the party claiming infringement; require us to attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; force us to attempt to redesign products that contain the allegedly infringing technology, which could be expensive or which we may be unable to do; require us to indemnify our customers, suppliers or other third parties for any loss caused by their use of our technology that allegedly infringes the third partys intellectual property rights; or divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents upon which our products or technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to our products of which we are not aware. 35 Table of Contents Breaches of our cybersecurity systems could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products to our customers, result in data losses and the theft of our intellectual property, damage our reputation, and require us to incur significant additional costs to maintain the security of our networks and data. We increasingly depend upon our information technology systems to conduct our business operations, ranging from our internal operations and product development and manufacturing activities to our marketing and sales efforts and communications with our customers and business partners. Computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security, or that of our website, and misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions of our service. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions to third-party contractors, including our manufacturers, and our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of our contractors own cybersecurity measures. Additionally, we face potential heightened cybersecurity risks during the COVID-19 pandemic as our level of dependence on our IT networks and related systems increases, stemming from employees working remotely, and the number of malware campaigns and phishing attacks preying on the uncertainties surrounding the COVID19 pandemic increases. These heightened cybersecurity risks may increase our vulnerability to cyber-attacks and cause disruptions to our internal control procedures. Accordingly, if our cybersecurity systems and those of our contractors fail to protect against unauthorized access, sophisticated cyberattacks and the mishandling of data by our employees and contractors, our ability to conduct our business effectively could be damaged in a number of ways, including sensitive data regarding our employees or business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data, could be stolen. Should this occur, we could be subject to significant claims for liability from our customers and regulatory actions from governmental agencies. In addition, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could be compromised and our reputation and competitive position could be significantly harmed. Consequently, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the COVID19 Outbreak The outbreak of COVID19, the coronavirus, continues both in the United States and globally, and related government and private sector responsive actions are adversely affecting our business operations. We have set forth below key risks from the COVID19 outbreak that we have identified or experienced to date. The situation continues to evolve, however, and it is impossible to predict the effect and ongoing impact of the COVID19 outbreak on our business operations and results. While the quarantine, social distancing and other regulatory measures instituted or recommended in response to COVID19 were expected to be temporary, such measures have remained in effect, and have changed, over the last year, and the duration of the business disruptions, and related financial impact, cannot be estimated at this time. The COVID19 outbreak could ultimately reduce demand for our products and our customers chips and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Substantially all of our operations are located in areas impacted by the COVID19 outbreak, and those operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID19 outbreak. We conduct substantially all of our product development, manufacturing, support and services in the PRC, and those activities have been directly impacted by the COVID19 outbreak and related restrictions on transportation and public appearances. In February 2020 our ACM Shanghai headquarters were closed for an additional six days beyond the normal Lunar New Year Holiday in accordance with Shanghai government restrictions related to the outbreak. We cannot assure you that further closures or reductions of our PRC operations or production may not be necessary in upcoming months as the result of business interruptions arising from protective measures being taken by the PRC and other governmental agencies or of other consequences of the COVID19 outbreak. Our corporate headquarters are located in San Mateo County in the San Francisco Bay Area. In order to attempt to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020 (a) the State of California declared a state of emergency related to the spread of COVID19, (b) the San Francisco Department of Public Health announced aggressive recommendations to reduce the spread of the disease, (c) the health officers of six San Francisco Bay Area counties, including San Mateo County, issued shelter-in-place orders, which (i) direct all individuals living in those counties to shelter at their places of residence (subject to limited exceptions), (ii) direct all businesses and governmental agencies to cease non-essential operations at physical locations in those counties, (iii) prohibit all non-essential gatherings of any number of individuals, and (iv) order cessation of all non-essential travel, and (d) the Governor of California and the State Public Health Officer and Director of the California Department of Public Health ordered all individuals living in the State of California to stay at their place of residence for an indefinite period of time (subject to limited exceptions). The effects of these types of actions in the future may negatively impact productivity, disrupt our business and delay timelines, the magnitude of which will depend, in part, on the length and severity of the restrictions and other limitations on our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course. 36 Table of Contents The prolonged and broad-based shift to a remote working environment continues to create inherent productivity, connectivity, and oversight challenges and could affect our ability to enhance, develop and support existing products and services, detect and prevent spam and problematic content, hold product sales and marketing events, and generate new sales leads, among others. In addition, the changed environment under which we are operating could have an effect on our internal controls over financial reporting as well as our ability to meet a number of our compliance requirements in a timely or quality manner. Additional and/or extended, governmental lockdowns, restrictions or new regulations could significantly impact the ability of our employees and vendors to work productively. Governmental restrictions have been globally inconsistent and it remains unclear when a return to worksite locations or travel will be permitted or what restrictions will be in place in those environments. As we prepare to return our workforce in more locations back to the office in 2021, we may experience increased costs as we prepare our facilities for a safe return to work environment and experiment with hybrid work models, in addition to potential effects on our ability to compete effectively and maintain our corporate culture. Extended periods of interruption to our corporate, development or manufacturing facilities due to the COVID19 outbreak could cause us to lose revenue and market share, which would depress our financial performance and could be difficult to recapture. Our business may also be harmed if travel to or from the PRC or the United States continues to be restricted or inadvisable or if members of management and other employees are absent because they contract the coronavirus, they elect not to come to work due to the illness affecting others in our office or laboratory facilities, or they are subject to quarantines or other governmentally imposed restrictions. Our global supply chain may be materially adversely impacted due to the COVID19 outbreak. We rely upon the facilities of our global suppliers with operations in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan and the United States to support our business. We source the substantial majority of our components from Asia. The outbreak has resulted in significant governmental measures in many countries being implemented to control the spread of COVID19, including restrictions on manufacturing and the movement of employees both in and out of China and within many regions of the PRC. As a result of COVID19 and the measures designed to contain its spread, our suppliers may not have the materials, capacity, or capability to supply our components according to our schedule and specifications. Further, there may be logistics issues, including our ability and our supply chains ability to quickly ramp up production, and transportation demands that may cause further delays. If our suppliers operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply, which may be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to us from our supply chain and subsequently to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. While the disruptions and restrictions on the ability to travel, quarantines and temporary closures of the facilities of our suppliers, as well as general limitations on movement in the region, are expected to be temporary, the duration of the production and supply chain disruption, and related financial impact, cannot be estimated at this time. Should the production and distribution closures continue for an extended period of time, the impact on our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Business disruptions could also negatively affect the sources and availability of components and materials that are essential to the operation of our business. Moreover, our customers source a range of production equipment, supplies and services from other suppliers with operations around the world, and any reduction in supply capacity at those customers factories due to the COVID19 pandemic may reduce or even halt those customers production and result in a decrease in the demand for our products. The COVID19 outbreak could negatively impact our currently planned projects and investments in the PRC, including the STAR IPO. Our strategy includes a number of plans to support the growth of our core business. In June 2019 we began working toward the proposed STAR Listing and STAR IPO with respect to shares of ACM Shanghai, and in November 2019 ACM Shanghai entered into an agreement initiating a process intended to lead to our acquisition of land rights in the Lingang area of Shanghai where we can construct a new research and development center and factory. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts these projects will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If the disruptions posed by COVID19 and related government measures, or other matters of global concern, continue for an extensive period of time, our ability to consummate one or both of these planned projects could be materially adversely affected. In September 2019 ACM Shanghai entered into a partnership agreement for the purposes of engaging in equity venture capital investments in strategic emerging and high-tech industries with a focus on the semiconductor industry. We cannot predict the ongoing effect that the COVID19 outbreak in the PRC will have on companies that would otherwise be desirable investments for the partnership, and the outbreak or related governmental actions could significantly impair the ability of the partnership to identify desirable investments or our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the partnership. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Class A Common Stock The market price of Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing our shares Class A common stock only commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq, on November 3, 2017, and the market price of Class A common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; actions of securities analysts who initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; changes in projections for the chips or chip equipment industries or in the operating performance or expectations and stock market valuations of chip companies, chip equipment companies or technology companies in general; changes in operating results; any changes in the financial projections we may provide to the public, our failure to meet these projections, or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Class A common stock; additional shares of Class A common stock being sold into the market by us or our existing stockholders or the anticipation of such sales; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; developments in new legislation and pending lawsuits or regulatory actions, including interim or final rulings by judicial or regulatory bodies; and general economic trends, including changes in the demand for electronics or information technology or geopolitical events such as war or acts of terrorism, or any responses to such events. In recent years, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the companies whose stock is experiencing those price and volume fluctuations. Our stock price may be volatile, and securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility of their stock price. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. During the quarter ended December 31, 2020, such a suit was filed against our company and certain members of our management team as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. No company with stock publicly traded in the United States has effected a STAR Market listing of stock of a PRC-based subsidiary, and it is therefore difficult to predict the effect of the proposed STAR Listing and STAR IPO on the Class A common stock. The China Securities Regulatory Commission initially launched the STAR Market in June 2019 and trading on the Market began in July 2019. We believe we are the first publicly traded U.S. company to propose an initial public offering of shares of a PRC subsidiary on the STAR Market. As a result, no assurance can be given regarding the effect of the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO on the market price of the Class A common stock. The market price of Class A common stock may be volatile or may decline, for reasons other than the risk and uncertainties described above, as the result of investor negativity or uncertainty with respect to the impact of the proposed STAR Listing and STAR IPO. ACM Research stockholders were not entitled to purchase ACM Shanghai shares in the pre-STAR Listing placement, and they may have limited opportunities to purchase ACM Shanghai shares even if the STAR Listing and the STAR IPO are completed. Investors may elect to invest in our business and operations by purchasing ACM Shanghai shares in the STAR IPO or on the STAR Market rather than purchasing ACM Research Class A common stock, and that reduction in demand could lead to a decrease in the market price for the Class A common stock. 38 Table of Contents An active trading market for Class A common stock may not be sustained. Class A common stock has been listed on Nasdaq only since November 3, 2017, and we cannot assure you that an active trading market for Class A common stock will be sustained or maintained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop or maintain a liquid market for Class A common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they publish negative evaluations of Class A common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade the Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the Class A common stock price would likely decline. In addition, if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of the Class A common stock or fails to publish reports about the Class A common stock on a regular basis, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline. Requirements associated with being a public reporting company involve significant ongoing costs and can divert significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of Nasdaq, and other rules and regulations of the SEC. We are working with our legal, independent accounting and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public reporting company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, disclosure