Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Forward-Looking Statements and Statistical Data at page 2 of this report. Please read Item1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations Overview We supply advanced, innovative capital equipment developed for the global semiconductor industry. Fabricators of advanced integrated circuits, or chips, can use our single-wafer wet-cleaning tools in numerous steps to improve product yield, even at increasingly advanced process nodes. We have designed these tools for use in fabricating foundry, logic and memory chips, including dynamic random-access memory (or DRAM) and 3D NAND-flash memory chips. We also develop, manufacture and sell a range of advanced packaging tools to wafer assembly and packaging customers. Selling prices for our single-wafer wet-cleaning tools range from $2 million to more than $5 million. Revenue from single-wafer wet-cleaning tools totaled $68.5 million, or 92% of total revenue, in 2018 and $27.1 million, or 74% of total revenue, in 2017. Our customers for single-wafer wet-cleaning tools include Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, SK Hynix Inc. and Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd. We focus our selling efforts on establishing a referenceable base of leading foundry, logic and memory chip makers, whose use of our products can influence decisions by other manufacturers. We believe this customer base will help us penetrate the mature chip manufacturing markets and build credibility with additional industry leaders. Using a demo-to-sales process, we have placed evaluation equipment, or first tools, with a number of selected customers. Since 2009 we have delivered more than 55 single-wafer wet cleaning tools, more than 50 of which have been accepted by customers and thereby generated revenue to us and the balance of which are awaiting customer acceptance should contractual conditions be met. Since our formation in 1998, we have focused on building a strategic portfolio of intellectual property to support and protect our key innovations. Our wet-cleaning equipment has been developed using our key proprietary technologies: Space Alternated Phase Shift, or SAPS, technology for flat and patterned wafer surfaces, which employs alternating phases of megasonic waves to deliver megasonic energy in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level; Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation, or TEBO, technology for patterned wafer surfaces at advanced process nodes, which provides effective, damage-free cleaning for 2D and 3D patterned wafers with fine feature sizes; and Tahoe technology for cost and environmental savings, which delivers high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. We have been issued more than 220 patents in the United States, the Peoples Republic of China or PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We conduct substantially all of our product development, manufacturing, support and services in the PRC. All of our tools are built to order at our manufacturing facilities in Shanghai, which encompass 86,000 square feet of floor space for production capacity. Our experience has shown that chip manufacturers in the PRC and throughout Asia demand equipment meeting their specific technical requirements and prefer building relationships with local suppliers. We will continue to seek to leverage our local presence to address the growing market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the region by working closely with regional chip manufacturers to understand their specific requirements, encourage them to adopt our SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies, and enable us to design innovative products and solutions to address their needs. 40 Corporate Background ACM Research was incorporated in California in 1998 and redomesticated in Delaware in 2016. We perform strategic planning, marketing, and financial activities at our global corporate headquarters in Fremont, California. Initially we focused on developing tools for chip manufacturing process steps involving the integration of ultra-low-K materials and copper. In the early 2000s we sold tools based on stress-free copper polishing technology. To help us establish and build relationships with chip manufacturers in the PRC, in 2006 we moved our operational center to Shanghai and began to conduct our business through our subsidiary ACM Shanghai. In 2007 we began to focus our development efforts on single-wafer wet-cleaning solutions for the front-end chip fabrication process. In 2009 we introduced SAPS megasonic technology, which can be applied in wet wafer cleaning at numerous steps during the chip fabrication process. In 2016 we introduced TEBO technology, which can be applied at numerous steps during the fabrication of small node conventional two-dimensional and three-dimensional patterned wafers. In August 2018, we introduced the Ultra-C Tahoe wafer cleaning tool, which delivers high cleaning performance with significantly less sulfuric acid than typically consumed by conventional high temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. In December 2017 we formed a wholly owned subsidiary in the Republic of Korea, ACM Research Korea CO., LTD., to serve our customers based in the Republic of Korea and perform sales, marketing, and research and development activities. We currently conduct the majority of our product development, support and services, and substantially all of our manufacturing at ACM Shanghai. Our Shanghai operations position us to be near many of our current and potential new customers in the PR (including Taiwan), Korea and throughout Asia, providing convenient access and reduced shipping and manufacturing costs. In 2011 ACM Shanghai formed a wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, ACM Research (Wuxi), Inc., to manage sales and service operations. In June 2017 we formed a wholly owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, CleanChip Technologies Limited, to act on our behalf in Asian markets outside the PRC by, for example, serving as a trading partner between ACM Shanghai and its customers, procuring raw materials and components, performing sales and marketing activities, and making strategic investments. In September 2018, we announced the opening of a second factory in the Pudong region of Shanghai. The new facility has a total of 50,000 square feet of available floor space for production capacity. This is in addition to our first factory in the Pudong Region of Shanghai, which has a total of 36,000 square feet of available floor space. Recent Equity Transactions Issuance and Subsequent Exercise of Warrant In December 2016 Shengxin (Shanghai) Management Consulting Limited Partnership, or SMC, paid 20,123,500 RMB ($3.0 million as of the date of funding) to ACM Shanghai for investment pursuant to terms to be subsequently negotiated. SMC is a PRC limited partnership owned by Jian Wang and other employees of our subsidiary ACM Shanghai. Jian Wang, who is the general partner of SMC, is our Vice President, Research and Development and the brother of David H. Wang, who is our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chair of the Board. In connection with that investment, we issued to SMC in March 2017 a warrant exercisable to purchase 397,502 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $7.50 per share, for a total exercise price of $3.0 million. The warrant was exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, at the option of SMC, at any time on or before May 17, 2023 to acquire all, but not less than all, of the shares of Class A common stock subject to the warrant. In March 2018 we entered into a warrant exercise agreement with ACM Shanghai and SMC pursuant to which SMC exercised the SMC warrant in full by issuance to us of a senior secured promissory note in the principal amount of $3.0 million. We transferred the SMC note to ACM Shanghai, in exchange for an intercompany promissory note issued by ACM Shanghai to us in the principal amount of $3.0 million. Each of the two notes bears interest at a rate of 3.01% per annum and matures on August 17, 2023. As security for its performance of its obligations under its note, SMC granted to ACM Shanghai a security interest in the 397,502 shares of Class A common stock issued to SMC upon its exercise of the warrant. 41 Strategic Investment in Key Supplier Ninebell Co., Ltd., or Ninebell, which is located in Seoul, Korea, is the principal supplier of robotic delivery system subassemblies used in our single-wafer cleaning equipment. On September 6, 2017 we and Ninebell entered into: an ordinary share purchase agreement, effective as of September 11, 2017, pursuant to which, contemporaneously with signing, Ninebell issued to us, for a purchase price of $1.2 million, ordinary shares representing 20% of Ninebells post-closing equity; and a common stock purchase agreement, effective as of September 11, 2017, pursuant to which, contemporaneously with signing, we issued 133,334 shares of Class A common stock to Ninebell for a purchase price of $7.50 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $1.0 million. In addition, under the ordinary share purchase agreement, Ninebell granted us a preemptive right for all future issuances of equity-related securities by Ninebell and the founder of Ninebell, who is the only other equity holder of Ninebell, granted us a right of first refusal with respect to any future sales of his equity securities. IPO and Concurrent Private Placements In November 2017 we issued 2,233,000 shares of Class A common stock and received net proceeds of $11.7 million from our initial public offering, or the IPO, and concurrently we issued an additional 1,333,334 shares of Class A common stock through a private placement for net proceeds of $7.1 million. Acquisition of Outstanding Minority Interests in ACM Shanghai Until August 31, 2017, ACM Research owned 62.87% of the outstanding equity interests in ACM Shanghai and three PRC-based third-party investors held the remaining 37.13% of equity interests, which were reflected as non-controlling interests in our consolidated balance sheets and related notes. In 2017 we took the following actions in order to enable ACM Research to acquire, consistent with requirements of arrangements previously entered into in connection with the investors acquisition of ACM Shanghai equity interests, the outstanding non-controlling interests in ACM Shanghai: In March 2017 we entered into a securities purchase agreement with Shanghai Science and Technology Venture Capital Co., Ltd., or SSTVC, which held 18.77% of the ACM Shanghai equity interests. Pursuant to that agreement, effective as of August 31, 2017, we (a) acquired, for a purchase price of $5.8 million, SSTVCs equity interests in ACM Shanghai and (b) issued to SSTVC, for a purchase price of $5.8 million, shares of Series E preferred stock that has converted, upon the closing of the IPO, into 1,666,170 shares of Class A common stock, at an effective purchase price of $3.48 per share. In August 2017 we entered into a securities purchase agreement with Shanghai Pudong High-Tech Investment Co., Ltd., or PDHTI, and its subsidiary Pudong Science and Technology (Cayman) Co., Ltd., or PST, pursuant to which we (a) submitted the winning bid, in an auction process mandated by PRC regulations, to purchase PDHTIs 10.78% equity interests in ACM Shanghai, which we completed on November 8, 2017, and (b) issued to PST, on September 8, 2017, 1,119,576 shares of Class A common stock for a purchase price of $7.50 per share, representing an aggregate purchase price of $8.4 million. In August 2017 we entered into a securities purchase agreement with Shanghai Zhangjiang Science & Technology Venture Capital Co., Ltd., or ZSTVC, and its subsidiary Zhangjiang AJ Company Limited, or ZJAJ, pursuant to which we (a) submitted the winning bid, in an auction process mandated by PRC regulations, to purchase ZSTVCs 7.58% equity interests in ACM Shanghai, which we completed on November 8, 2017, and (b) issued to ZJAJ, on September 8, 2017, 787,098 shares of Class A common stock for a purchase price of $7.50 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $5.9 million. Since November 8, 2017, ACM Research has owned all of the outstanding equity interests in ACM Shanghai. 42 Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We develop, manufacture and sell single-wafer wet cleaning equipment and custom-made wafer assembly and packaging equipment. Because we currently sell tools to a small number of customers and we customize those tools to fulfill the customers specific requirements, our revenue generation fluctuates, depending on the length of the sales, development and evaluation phases: Sales and Development. During the sale process we may, depending on a prospective customers specifications and requirements, need to perform additional research, development and testing to establish that a tool can meet the prospective customers requirements. We then host an in-house demonstration of the customized tool prototype. Sales cycles for orders that require limited customization and do not require that we develop new technology usually take from 6 to 12 months, while the product life cycle, including the initial design, demonstration and final assembly phases, for orders requiring development and testing of new technologies can take as long as 2 to 4 years. As we expand our customer base, we expect to gain more repeat purchase orders for tools that we have already developed and tested, which will eliminate the need for a demonstration phase and shorten the development cycle. Evaluation Periods. When a chip manufacturer proposes to purchase a particular type of tool from us for the first time, we offer the manufacturer an opportunity to evaluate the tool for a period that can extend for 24 months or longer. We do not receive any payment on first-time purchases until the tool is accepted. As a result, we may spend between $1.0 and $2.0 million to produce a tool without receiving payment for more than 24 months or, if the tool is not accepted, without receiving any payment. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryWe may incur significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all, due to the costs and length of research, development, manufacturing and customer evaluation process cycles. Purchase Orders. In accordance with industry practice, sales of our tools are made pursuant to purchase orders. Each purchase order from a customer for one of our tools contains specific technical requirements intended to ensure, among other things, that the tool will be compatible with the customers manufacturing process line. Until a purchase order is received, we do not have a binding purchase commitment. Our SAPS and TEBO customers to date have provided us with non-binding one- to two-year forecasts of their anticipated demands, and we expect future customers to furnish similar non-binding forecasts for planning purposes. Any of those forecasts would be subject to change, however, by the customer at any time, without notice to us. Fulfillment. We seek to obtain a purchase order for a tool from three to four months in advance of the expected delivery date. Depending upon the nature of a customers specifications, the lead time for production of a tool generally will extend from two to four months. The lead-time can be as long as six months, however, and in some cases we may need to begin producing a tool based on a customers non-binding forecast, rather than waiting to receive a binding purchase order. We expect our sales prices generally to range from $2 million to more than $5 million for our single-wafer wet cleaning tools. The sales price of a particular tool will vary depending upon the required specifications. We have designed equipment models using a modular configuration that we customize to meet customers technical specifications. For example, our Ultra C models for SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe solutions use common modular configurations that enable us to create a wet-cleaning tool meeting a customers specific requirements, while using pre-existing designs for chamber, electrical, chemical delivery and other modules. Because of the relatively large purchase prices of our tools, customers generally pay in installments. For a customers repeat purchase of a particular type of tool, the specific payment terms are negotiated in connection with acceptance milestones of a purchase order. Based on our limited experience with repeat sales of our tools, we expect that we will receive an initial payment upon delivery of a tool in connection with a repeat purchase, with the balance being paid once the tool has been tested and accepted by the customer. Our sales arrangements for repeat purchases do not include a general right of return. 43 Based on our market experience, we believe that implementation of our equipment by one of our selected leading companies will attract and encourage other manufacturers to evaluate our equipment, because the leading companys implementation will serve as validation of our equipment and will enable the other manufacturers to shorten their evaluation processes. We placed our first SAPS-based tool in 2009 as a prototype. We worked closely with the customer for two years in debugging and modifying the tool, and the customer then spent two more years of qualification and running pilot production before beginning volume manufacturing. We expect that the period from new product introduction to high volume manufacturing will be three years or less in the future. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsBusinessWe depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There are also a limited number of potential customers for our products. All of our sales in 2018 and 2017 were to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue will continue to come from customers located in this region for the near future. We have increased our sales efforts to penetrate the markets in North America and Western Europe. We utilize the guidance set forth in Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, regarding the recognition, presentation and disclosure of revenue in our financial statements as described below under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesRevenue Recognition. We offer extended maintenance service contracts to provide services such as trouble-shooting or fine-tuning tools, and installing spare parts, following expiration of applicable initial warranty coverage periods, which for sales to date have extended from 12 to 36 months as described under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesWarranty. A limited number of the single-wafer wet cleaning tools we have sold to date are no longer covered by their initial warranties. In 2018 and 2017, we received payments for parts and labor for service activities provided from time to time, but as of December 31, 2018 we had not yet entered into extended maintenance service contracts with respect to any of the tools for which initial warranty coverage had expired. We expect to enter into extended maintenance service contracts with customers as additional initial warranties expire, but we do not expect revenue from extended maintenance service contracts to represent a material portion of our revenue in the future. The loss or delay of one or more large sale transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed, as described under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryOur quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of Class A common stock. It is difficult to predict accurately when, or even if, we can complete a sale of a tool to a potential customer or to increase sales to any existing customer. Our tool demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, including non-binding forecasts received from customers years in advance, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our tools make it difficult for us to project future operating results and may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory or on tools that may not be purchased, as further described in Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryDifficulties in forecasting demand for our tools may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excess spending on inventory items that may not be used. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for capital equipment consists primarily of: direct costs, which consist principally of costs of tool components and subassemblies purchased from third-party vendors; compensation of personnel associated with our manufacturing operations, including stock-based compensation; depreciation of manufacturing equipment; amortization of costs of software used for manufacturing purposes; other expenses attributable to our manufacturing department; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. 44 We are not party to any long-term purchasing agreements with suppliers. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryOur customers do not enter into long-term purchase commitments, and they may decrease, cancel or delay their projected purchases at any time. As our customer base and tool installations continue to grow, we will need to hire additional manufacturing personnel. The rates at which we add customers and install tools will affect the level and time of this spending. In addition, because we often import components and spare parts from the United States, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, the effect of the dollars growth on our cost of revenue. Gross Margin Our gross margin was 46.2% in 2018 and 47.2% in 2017. Gross margin may vary from period to period, primarily related to the level of utilization and the timing and mix of purchase orders. We expect gross margin to range between 40% and 45% for the foreseeable future, with direct manufacturing costs approximating 50% to 55% of revenue and overhead costs totaling approximately 5% of revenue. We seek to maintain our gross margin by continuing to develop proprietary technologies that avoid pricing pressure for our wet cleaning equipment. We actively manage our operations through principles of operational excellence designed to ensure continuing improvement in the efficiency and quality of our manufacturing operations by, for example, implementing factory constraint management and change control and inventory management systems. In addition, our purchasing department actively seeks to identify and negotiate supply contracts with improved pricing to reduce cost of revenue. A significant portion of our raw materials are denominated in Renminbi, or RMB, while the majority of our purchase orders are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, currency exchange rates may have a significant effect on our gross margin. Operating Expenses We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the dollar amount of our operating expenses, as we make investments to support the anticipated growth of our customer base and the continued development of proprietary technologies. As we continue to grow our business, we expect operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense accounted for 12.9% of our revenue in 2018 and 15.1% of our revenue in 2017. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of: compensation of personnel associated with pre- and after-sales support and other sales and marketing activities, including stock-based compensation; sales commissions paid to independent sales representatives; fees paid to sales consultants; shipping and handling costs for transportation of products to customers; cost of trade shows; travel and entertainment; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. Sales and marketing expense can be significant and may fluctuate, in part because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of our sales cycle. The length of our sales cycle, from initial contact with a customer to the execution of a purchase order, is generally 6 to 24 months. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities, including educating customers about our tools, participating in extended tool evaluations and configuring our tools to customer-specific needs. Sales and marketing expense in a given period can be particularly affected by the increase in travel and entertainment expenses associated with the finalization of purchase orders or the installation of tools. 45 We expect that, for the foreseeable future, sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in sales and marketing by hiring additional employees and expanding marketing programs in existing or new markets. We must invest in sales and marketing processes in order to develop and maintain close relationships with customers. We are making dollar-based investments in dollars in order to support growth of our customer base in the United States, and the relative strength of the dollar could have a significant effect on our sales and marketing expense. Research and Development Research and development expense accounted for 13.9% of our revenue in 2018 and 14.1% of our revenue in 2017. Research and development expense relates to the development of new products and processes and encompasses our research, development and customer support activities. Research and development expense consists primarily of: compensation of personnel associated with our research and development activities, including stock-based compensation; costs of components and other research and development supplies; travel expense associated with customer support; amortization of costs of software used for research and development purposes; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. Some of our research and development has been funded by grants from the PRC government, as described in PRC Government Research and Development Funding below. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars and will range between 18% and 22% of revenue, as we continue to invest in research and development to advance our technologies. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing single-wafer wet cleaning products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position. General and Administrative General and administrative expense accounted for 10.7% of our revenue in 2018 and 16.1% of our revenue in 2017. General and administrative expense consists primarily of: compensation of executive, accounting and finance, human resources, information technology, and other administrative personnel, including stock-based compensation; professional fees, including accounting and legal fees; other corporate expenses; and allocated overhead for rent and utilities. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars, as we incur additional costs associated with growing our business and operating as a public company, but will continue to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue. Stock-Based Compensation Expense We grant stock options to employees and non-employee consultants and directors, and we accounts for those stock-based awards in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation and ASC Subtopic 505-50, Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees , each as adopted by the FASB. Stock-based awards granted to employees are measured at the fair value of the awards on the grant date and are recognized as expenses either (a) immediately on grant, if no vesting conditions are required, or (b) using the graded vesting method, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense, when recognized, is charged to cost of revenue or to the category of operating expense corresponding to the employees service function. Stock-based awards granted to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the awards at the earlier of (a) the date at which a commitment for performance by the non-employee to earn the awards is reached and (b) the date at which the non-employees performance is complete. The fair value of such non-employee awards is re-measured at each reporting date using the fair value at each period end until the vesting date. Changes in fair value between the reporting dates are recognized by the graded vesting method. 46 Cost of revenue and operating expenses during the periods presented below have included stock-based compensation as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Stock-Based Compensation Expense: Cost of revenue $ 71 $ 21 Sales and marketing expense 120 53 Research and development expense 255 50 General and administrative expense 2,917 1,499 $ 3,363 $ 1,623 We recognized stock-based compensation expense to employees of $0.7 million in 2018 and $0.3 million in 2017. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $2.4 million and $0.7 million of total unrecognized employee share-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to unvested share-based awards. These are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.62 years and 1.77 years, respectively. We recognized stock-based compensation expense to non-employees of $2.7 million in 2018 and $1.4 million in 2017. The fair value of each option granted to a non-employee is re-measured at each period end until the vesting date. PRC Government Research and Development Funding ACM Shanghai has received four grants from local and central governmental authorities in the PRC. The first grant, which was awarded in 2008, relates to the development and commercialization of 65nm to 45nm stress-free polishing technology. The second grant was awarded in 2009 to fund interest expense on short-term borrowings. The third grant was made in 2014 and relates to the development of electro copper-plating technology. The fourth grant was made in June 2018 and related to development of polytetrafluoroethylene. PRC governmental authorities provide the majority of the funding, although ACM Shanghai is also required to invest certain amounts in the projects. The PRC governmental grants contain certain operating conditions, and we are required to go through a government due diligence process once the project is complete. The grants therefore are recorded as long-term liabilities upon receipt, although we are not required to return any funds we receive. Grant amounts are recognized in our statements of operations and comprehensive income as follows: Government subsidies relating to current expenses are reflected as reductions of those expenses in the periods in which they are reported. Those reductions totaled $1.5 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2017. Government grants used to acquire depreciable assets are transferred from long-term liabilities to property, plant and equipment when the assets are acquired and then the recorded amounts of the assets are credited to other income over the useful lives of the assets. Related government subsidies recognized as other income totaled $0.1 million in 2018 and in 2017. Net Income Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests From January 1, 2015 to August 31, 2017, ACM Research owned 62.87% of the equity interests of ACM Shanghai, with three non-controlling, unrelated investors holding the remainder. ACM Research acquired all of the non-controlling interests from minority investors in several transactions during 2017. Following these transactions, ACM Research owned 100% of the ACM Shanghai subsidiary. 47 How We Evaluate Our Operations We present information below with respect to four measures of financial performance: We define shipments of tools to include (a) a repeat delivery to a customer of a type of tool that the customer has previously accepted, for which we recognize revenue upon delivery, and (b) a first-time delivery of a first tool to a customer on an approval basis, for which we may recognize revenue in the future if contractual conditions are met and customer acceptance is received. We define adjusted EBITDA as our net income excluding interest expense (net), income tax benefit (expense), depreciation and amortization, and stock-based compensation. We define adjusted EBITDA to also exclude restructuring costs, although we have not incurred any such costs to date. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment (net of proceeds from disposals) and of intangible assets. We define adjusted operating income (loss) as our income (loss) from operations excluding stock-based compensation. These financial measures are not based on any standardized methodologies prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, and are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. We have presented shipments, adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and adjusted operating income (loss) because they are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. We believe that these financial measures help identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we exclude. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating income (loss) can provide useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance and that the exclusion of property and equipment purchases from operating cash flow can provide a usual means to gauge our capability to generate cash. Accordingly, we believe that these financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allowing for greater transparency with respect to key financial metrics used by our management in its financial and operational decision-making. Shipments, adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and adjusted operating income (loss) are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Shipments Shipments consist of two components: a shipment to a customer of a type of tool that the customer has previously-accepted, for which we recognize revenue when the tool is delivered; and a shipment to a customer of a type of tool that the customer is receiving and evaluating for the first time, in each case a first tool, for which we may recognize revenue at a later date, subject to the customers acceptance of the tool upon the tools satisfaction of applicable contractual requirements. First tool shipments can be made to either an existing customer that not previously accepted that specific type of tool in the past for example, a delivery of SAPS V tool to a customer that previously had received only SAPS II tools or to a new customer that has never purchased any tool from us. Shipments for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $95.1 million, as compared to $40.1 million of shipments in the year ended December 31, 2017. 48 The dollar amount attributed to a first tool shipment is equal to the consideration we expect to receive if any and all contractual requirements are satisfied and the customer accepts the tool. There are a number of limitations related to the use of shipments in evaluating our business, including that customers have significant discretion in determining whether to accept our tools and their decision not to accept delivered tools is likely to result in our inability to recognize revenue from the delivered tools. Adjusted EBITDA There are a number of limitations related to the use of adjusted EBITDA rather than net income (loss), which is the nearest GAAP equivalent. Some of these limitations are: adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated or amortized may have to be replaced in the future; we exclude stock-based compensation expense from adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating income (loss), although (a) it has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy and (b) if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, the cash salary expense included in operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position; the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from adjusted EBITDA when they report their operating results; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest expense, or the requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on debt; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax expense (benefit) or the cash requirements to pay taxes; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; although depreciation and amortization charges are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and adjusted EBITDA includes expense reductions and non-operating other income attributable to PRC governmental grants, which may mask the effect of underlying developments in net income (loss), including trends in current expenses and interest expense, and free cash flow includes the PRC governmental grants, the amount and timing of which can be difficult to predict and are outside our control. The following table reconciles net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 in thousands Adjusted EBITDA Data: Net income (loss) attributable to ACM Research, Inc. $ 6,574 $ (318 ) Interest expense, net 469 268 Income tax expense 806 547 Depreciation and amortization 417 271 Stock-based compensation 3,363 1,622 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,629 $ 2,390 Adjusted EBITDA in 2018, as compared to $2.4 million in 2017 reflected principally an increase of $6.9 million in net income and $1.7 million increase in stock-based compensation. We do not exclude from adjusted EBITDA expense reductions and non-operating other income attributable to PRC governmental grants because we consider and incorporate the expected amounts and timing of those grants in incurring expenses and capital expenditures. If we did not receive the grants, our cash expenses therefore would be lower, and our cash position would not be affected, to the extent we have accurately anticipated the amounts of the grants. For additional information regarding our PRC grants, please see Key Components of Results of OperationsPRC Government Research and Development Funding. 49 Free Cash Flow The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 in thousands Free Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,909 $ (8,101 ) Purchase of property and equipment (1,830 ) (651 ) Purchase of intangible assets (241 ) (115 ) Free cash flow $ 4,839 $ (8,867 ) Free cash flow in 2018, as compared to 2017, reflected the factors driving net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, principally increase in net income, accounts payable, advance from customers, and offset by increase in inventories, prepaid expenses. Consistent with our methodology for calculating adjusted EBITDA, we do not adjust free cash flow for the effects of PRC government subsidies, because we take those subsidies into account in incurring expenses and capital expenditures. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income excludes stock-based compensation from income (loss) from operations. Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, determining the fair value of certain of the stock-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related stock-based awards. Furthermore, unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options, which is an element of our ongoing stock-based compensation expense, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control. Management believes it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. The use of non-GAAP financial measures excluding stock-based compensation has limitations, however. If we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, the cash salary expense included in operating expenses would be higher and our cash holdings would be less. The following tables reflect the exclusion of stock-based compensation, or SBC, from line items comprising income (loss) from operations: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Actual (GAAP) SBC Adjusted (Non-GAAP) (in thousands) Adjusted Operating Income: Revenue $ 74,643 $ - $ 74,643 $ 36,506 $ - $ 36,506 Cost of revenue (40,194 ) (71 ) (40,123 ) (19,281 ) (21 ) (19,260 ) Gross profit 34,449 (71 ) 34,520 17,225 (21 ) 17,246 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (9,611 ) (120 ) (9,491 ) (5,500 ) (53 ) (5,447 ) Research and development (10,380 ) (255 ) (10,125 ) (5,138 ) (50 ) (5,088 ) General and administrative (7,987 ) (2,917 ) (5,070 ) (5,887 ) (1,499 ) (4,388 ) Income (loss) from operations $ 6,471 $ (3,363 ) $ 9,834 $ 700 $ (1,623 ) $ 2,323 50 Adjusted operating income in 2018, as compared to 2017 reflected increases in operating income of $5.8 million and stock-based compensation of $1.7 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on-going basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , or ASU 2014-09, which amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 establishes principles for recognizing revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers, in an amount that reflects the expected consideration received in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 and its related clarifying ASUs are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those annual periods. On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and all the related amendments, or the New Revenue Standard, to all contracts that were not completed as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We do not have open contracts that may result in any changes to revenues applying the New Revenue Standard. We derive revenue principally from the sale of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized using the following five steps pursuant to the New Revenue Standard: 1. identify the contract(s) with a customer; 2. identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and 5. recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. A contract contains a promise (or promises) to transfer goods or services to a customer. A performance obligation is a promise (or a group of promises) that is distinct. The transaction price is the amount of consideration a company expects to be entitled from a customer in exchange for providing the goods or services. The unit of account for revenue recognition is a performance obligation (a good or service). A contract may contain one or more performance obligations. Performance obligations are accounted for separately if they are distinct. A good or service is distinct if the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer, and the good or service is distinct in the context of the contract. Otherwise performance obligations are combined with other promised goods or services until we identify a bundle of goods or services that is distinct. Promises in contracts which do not result in the transfer of a good or service are not performance obligations, as well as those promises that are administrative in nature, or are immaterial in the context of the contract. We have addressed whether various goods and services promised to the customer represent distinct performance obligations. We applied the guidance of ASC Topic 606-10-25-16 through 18 in order to verify which promises should be assessed for classification as distinct performance obligations. Our contracts with customers include more than one performance obligation. For example, the delivery of a piece of equipment generally includes the promise to install the equipment in the customers facility. Our performance obligations in connection with a sale of equipment generally include production, delivery and installation, together with the provision of a warranty. 51 The transaction price is allocated to all the separate performance obligations in an arrangement. It reflects the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services, which may include an estimate of variable consideration to the extent that it is probable of not being subject to significant reversals in the future based on our experience with similar arrangements. The transaction price excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes. This is done on a relative selling price basis using standalone selling prices, or SSP. The SSP represents the price at which we would sell that good or service on a standalone basis at the inception of the contract. Given the requirement for establishing SSP for all performance obligations, if the SSP is directly observable through standalone sales, then such sales should be considered in the establishment of the SSP for the performance obligation. All of our products were sold in stand-alone arrangements, we do not have observable SSPs for most performance obligations as they are not regularly sold on a standalone basis. Production, delivery and installation of a product, together with provision of a warranty, are a single unit of accounting. We recognize revenue when we satisfy each performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods or services to the customer. Goods or services can transfer at a point in time (upon the acceptance of the products or upon the arrival at the destination as stipulated in the shipment terms) in a sale arrangement. In general, we recognize revenue when a tool has been demonstrated to meet the customers predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue as of the earlier of the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period and customer acceptance. In the following circumstances, however, we recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery, when legal title to the tool is passed to a customer as follows: when the customer has previously accepted the same tool with the same specifications and we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria; when the sales contract or purchase order contains no acceptance agreement or lapsing acceptance provision and we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria; when the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications; or when our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. We offer post-warranty period services, which consist principally of the installation and replacement of parts and small-scale modifications to the equipment. The related revenue and costs of revenue are recognized when parts have been delivered and installed, risk of loss has passed to the customer, and collection is probable. We do not expect revenue from extended maintenance service contracts to represent a material portion of its revenue in the future. As such, we have concluded that its revenue recognition under the adoption of the New Revenue Standard will remain the same as previously reported and will not have material impacts to its consolidated financial statements. We incur costs related to the acquisition of its contracts with customers in the form of sales commissions. Sales commissions are paid to third party representatives and distributors. Contractual agreements with these parties outline commission structures and rates to be paid. Generally speaking, the contracts are all individual procurement decisions by the customers and are not for significant periods of time, nor do they include renewal provisions. As such, all contracts have an economic life of significantly less than a year. Accordingly, we expense sales commissions when incurred in accordance with the practical expedient in the New Revenue Standard when the underlying contract asset is less than one year. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses. Generally, all contracts have expected durations of one year or less. Accordingly, we apply the practical expedient allowed in the New Revenue Standard and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. We do not incur any costs to fulfill the contracts with customers that are not already reported in compliance with another applicable standard (for example, inventory or plant, property and equipment). 52 Stock-Based Compensation We account for grants of stock options based on their grant date fair value and recognize compensation expense over the vesting periods. We estimate the fair value of stock options as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation over their vesting terms. Stock-based compensation expense represents the cost of the grant date fair value of employee stock option grants recognized over the requisite service period of the awards (usually the vesting period) on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including (a) the risk-free interest rate, (b) the expected volatility of our stock, (c) the expected term of the award and (d) the expected dividend yield. Prior to our initial public offering in November 2017, or the IPO, the board of directors considered a number of objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair value of our common stock. The factors included: contemporaneous third-party valuations of our common stock; the prices, rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred stock relative to the common stock; the prices of convertible preferred stock sold by us to third-party investors; our operating and financial results; the lack of marketability of our common stock; the U.S. and global economic and capital market conditions and outlook; and the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event for the shares of common stock underlying these stock options, such as an initial public offering or sale of our company, given prevailing market conditions. Since the IPO, we have used the market closing price for the Class A common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market to determine the fair value of the Class A common stock. The risk-free interest rates for periods within the expected life of the option are based on the yields of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Due to a lack of company-specific historical and implied volatility data, we have based our estimate of expected volatility on the historical volatility of a group of similar companies that are publicly traded. For these analyses, we have selected companies with comparable characteristics to ours including enterprise value, risk profile, position within the industry, and with historical share price information sufficient to meet the expected life of the stock-based awards. We compute the historical volatility data using the daily closing prices for the selected companies shares during the equivalent period of the calculated expected term of our stock-based awards. We will continue to apply this process until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own stock price becomes available. The expected term represents the period of time that options are expected to be outstanding. The expected term of stock options is based on the average between the vesting period and the contractual term for each grant according to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110. The expected dividend yield is assumed to be 0%, based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no present intention to pay cash dividends. For employee stock option grants made during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of those grants were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Risk-free interest rate 2.55%-2.96% 2.21%-2.22% Expected volatility 39.14%-43.00% 28.62%-29.18% Expected term (in years) 6.25 6.25 Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 53 For non-employee stock option grants made during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of those grants were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Risk-free interest rate 2.39%-2.94% 1.62%-2.43% Expected volatility 40.24%-45.48% 28.71% - 29.41% Expected term ( in years) 2.58-5.36 3.58-6.25 Expected dividend yield 0% 0% The following table summarizes by grant date the number of shares of common stock underlying stock options granted since January 1, 2017, as well as the associated per share exercise price and the estimated fair value per share of common stock on the grant date: Grant Dates Number of Common Shares Underlying Options Granted Exercise Price per Common Share Estimated Fair Value per Common Share May 1, 2015 783,338 $ 1.50 $ 1.50 September 8, 2015 263,335 1.50 1.50 December 28, 2016 1,424,596 3.00 2.28 March 9, 2017 33,334 7.50 7.50 May 9, 2017 183,335 7.50 7.50 November 2, 2017 120,002 5.60 5.60 January 25, 2018 500,000 5.31 5.31 August 1, 2018 245,700 13.85 13.85 As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding options was $2.4 million and is expected to be recognized as expense over a weighted-average of 1.62 years. As of December 31, 2017, the unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding options was $729,000 and is expected to be recognized as expense over a weighted-average of 1.77 years. As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding stock options to acquire an aggregate of 3,715,779 shares of Class A common stock with an intrinsic value of $27.1 million. Of those outstanding options, (a) 2,273,880 shares had vested as of December 31, 2018, representing an intrinsic value of $20.0 million and (b) 1,441,899 shares were unvested, representing an intrinsic value of $7.1 million. Inventory Inventories consist of finished goods, raw materials, work-in-process and consumable materials. Finished goods are comprised of direct materials, direct labor, depreciation and manufacturing overhead. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net recognizable value of the inventory at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The cost of a general inventory item is determined using the weighted average method. The cost of an inventory item purchased specifically for a customized tool is determined using the specific identification method. Market value is determined as the lower of replacement cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling price, in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs to complete or dispose. We assess the recoverability of all inventories quarterly to determine if any adjustments are required. We write down excess or obsolete tool-related inventory based on managements analysis of inventory levels and forecasted 12-month demand and technological obsolescence and spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are affected by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction, and they require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and those differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values. 54 Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and spoilage are recognized as current period charges. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets at their estimated collectible amounts. A substantial majority of our accounts receivable are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers in Asia. We follow the allowance method of recognizing uncollectible accounts receivable, pursuant to which we regularly assess our ability to collect outstanding customer invoices and make estimates of the collectability of accounts receivable. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when we determine that the collection of an outstanding customer receivable is not probable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (a) accounts receivable and historical bad debts experience, (b) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations, (c) changes in our customer payment history, and (d) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and the impact of those conditions on our customers. If circumstances change, such that the financial conditions of our customers are adversely affected and they are unable to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Property, Plant and Equipment Assets comprising property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets and begins when the assets are placed in service. Betterments or renewals are capitalized when incurred. Maintenance and repairs with respect to an asset are expensed as incurred if they neither materially add to the value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its life. Assets comprising plant, property and equipment are reviewed each year to determine whether any events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent the fair value of separately recognizable intangible assets acquired in connection with our business operations. We evaluate intangibles for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be fully recoverable or that the useful life is shorter than we had originally estimated. When these events or changes occur, we evaluate the impairment of the long-lived assets by comparing the carrying value of the assets to an estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flow is less than the carrying value of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. No impairment charge was recognized in 2018 and 2017. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for using the liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance would be provided for the deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the related benefit will not be realized. 55 On a quarterly basis, we provide income tax provisions based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintained a partial valuation allowance as of December 31, 2018 with respect to certain net deferred tax assets based on our estimates of recoverability. We determined that the partial valuation allowance was appropriate given our historical operating losses and uncertainty with respect to our ability to generate profits from our business model sufficient to take advantage of the deferred tax assets in all applicable tax jurisdictions. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than fifty-percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recorded in the provision for income tax expense on the consolidated statements of operations. Foreign Currency Translation Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, which is our reporting currency, while the functional currency of our subsidiaries in the PRC is RMB, and the functional currency of our subsidiary in Korea is the Korean Won. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transactions. Any difference between the initially recorded amount and the settlement amount is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency transaction in our consolidated statements of operations. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange as of the date of a consolidated balance sheet. Any difference is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency translation in the appropriate consolidated statement of operations. In accordance with the FASBs ASC Topic 830, Foreign Currency Matters , we translate the assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars from RMB using the rate of exchange prevailing at the applicable balance sheet date and the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows are translated at an average rate during the reporting period. Adjustments resulting from the translation are recorded in stockholders equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive income. The PRC government imposes significant exchange restrictions on fund transfers out of the PRC that are not related to business operations. To date these restrictions have not had a material impact on us because we have not engaged in any significant transactions that are subject to the restrictions. Warranty We have provided warranty coverage on our tools for 12 to 36 months, covering labor and parts necessary to repair a tool during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as sales and marketing expense at the time revenue is recognized. Warranty obligations are affected by historical failure rates and associated replacement costs. Utilizing historical warranty cost records, we calculate a rate of warranty expenses to revenue to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges on a regular basis. The actual product performance and field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. 56 Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements impacting our company, see Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include herein under