Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our Technology and Product Offerings Wet Cleaning Equipment for Front End Production Processes Chip fabricators can use our single-wafer wet-cleaning tools in numerous steps to improve product yield in the front-end production process, during which individual devices are patterned in a chip prior to being interconnected on a wafer. Our wet-cleaning equipment has been developed using our proprietary SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies, which allow our tools to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging a wafer or its features, even at increasingly advanced process nodes (the minimum line widths on a chip) of 22nm or less. We use a modular configuration that enables us to create a wet-cleaning tool meeting the specific requirements of a customer, while using pre-existing designs for chamber, electrical, chemical delivery and other modules. Our modular approach supports a wide range of customer needs and facilitates the adaptation of our model tools for use with the optimal chemicals selected to meet a customers requirements. Our tools are offered principally for use in manufacturing chips from 300 millimeter, or mm, silicon wafers, but we also offer solutions for 150mm and 200mm wafers and for nonstandard substrates, including compound semiconductor, quartz, sapphire, glass and plastics. SAPS Technology, Applications and Equipment SAPS Technology SAPS technology delivers megasonic energy uniformly to every point on an entire wafer by alternating phases of megasonic waves in the gap between a megasonic transducer and the wafer. Radicals for removing random defects are generated in dilute solution, and the radical generation is promoted by megasonic energy. Unlike stationary megasonic transducers used in conventional megasonic cleaning methods, SAPS technology moves or tilts a transducer while a wafer rotates, enabling megasonic energy to be delivered uniformly across all points on the wafer, even if the wafer is warped. The mechanical force of cavitations generated by megasonic energy enhances the mass transfer rate of dislodged random defects and improves particle removal efficiency. 8 Table of Contents By delivering megasonic energy in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level, SAPS technology can precisely control the intensity of megasonic energy and can effectively remove random defects of all sizes across the entire wafer in less total cleaning time than conventional megasonic cleaning products, without loss of material or roughing of wafer surfaces. We have conducted trials demonstrating SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray cleaning technologies as defect sizes shrink from 300nm to 20nm and below. These trials show that SAPS technology has an even greater relative advantage over conventional jet spray technology for cleaning defects between 50 and 65nm in size, and we expect the relative benefits of SAPS will continue to apply in cleaning even smaller defect sizes. SAPS Applications SAPS megasonic cleaning technology can be applied during the chip fabrication process to clean wafer surfaces and interconnects. It also can be used to clean, and lengthen the lifetime, of recycled test wafers. Wafer Surfaces. SAPS technology can enhance removal of random defects following planarization and deposition, which are among the most important, and most repeated, steps in the fabrication process: Post CMP: Chemical mechanical planarization, or CMP, uses an abrasive chemical slurry following other fabrication processes, such as deposition and etching, in order to achieve a smooth wafer surface in preparation for subsequent processing steps. SAPS technology can be applied following each CMP process to remove residual random defects deposited or formed during CMP. Post Hard Mask Deposition: As part of the photolithographical patterning process, a mask is applied with each deposition of a material layer to prevent etching of material intended to be retained. Hard masks have been developed to etch high aspect-ratio features of advanced chips that traditional masks cannot tolerate. SAPS technology can be applied following each deposition step involving hard masks that use nitride, oxide or carbon-based materials to achieve higher etch selectivity and resolution. For these purposes, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals, reducing chemical consumption. Chemical types include dilute solutions of chemicals used in RCA cleaning, such as dilute hydrofluoric acid and RCA SC-1 solutions, and, for higher quality wafer cleaning, functional de-ionized water produced by dissolving hydrogen, nitrogen or carbon dioxide in water containing a small amount of chemicals, such as ammonia. Functional water removes random defects by generating radicals, and megasonic excitation can be used in conjunction with functional water to further increase the generation of radicals. Functional water has a lower cost and environmental impact than RCA solutions, and using functional water is more efficient in eliminating random defects than using dilute chemicals or de-ionized water alone. We have shown that SAPS megasonic technology using functional water exhibits high efficiency in removing random defects, especially particles smaller than 65nm, with minimal damage to structures. Interconnects and Barrier Metals. Each successive advanced process node has led to finer feature sizes of interconnects such as contacts, which form electrical pathways between a transistor and the first metal layer, and vias, which form electrical pathways between two metal layers. Advanced nodes have also resulted in higher aspect ratios for interconnect structures, with thinner, redesigned metal barriers being used to prevent diffusion. SAPS technology can improve the removal of residues and other random defects from interconnects during the chip fabrication process: Post Contact/Via Etch: Wet etching processes are commonly used to create patterns of high-density contacts and vias. SAPS technology can be applied after each such etching process to remove random defects that could otherwise lead to electrical shorts. Pre Barrier-Metal Deposition: Copper wiring requires metal diffusion barriers at the top of via holes to prevent electrical leakage. SAPS technology can be applied prior to deposition of barrier metal to remove residual oxidized copper, which otherwise would adhere poorly to the barrier and impair performance. For these applications, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, ozonated de-ionized water and functional de-ionized water with dissolved hydrogen. These chemical solutions take the place of piranha solution, a high-temperature mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide used by conventional wet wafer cleaning processes. We have shown that SAPS technology exhibits greater efficiency in removing random defects, and lower levels of material loss, than conventional processes, and our chemical solutions are less expensive and more environmentally conscious than piranha solution. Recycled Test Wafers. In addition to using silicon wafers for chip production, chip manufacturers routinely process wafers through a limited portion of the front-end fabrication steps in order to evaluate the health, performance and reliability of 9 Table of Contents those steps. Manufacturers also use wafers for non-product purposes such as inline monitoring. Wafers used for purposes other than manufacturing revenue products are known as test wafers, and it is typical for twenty to thirty percent of the wafers circulating in a fab to be test wafers. In light of the significant cost of wafers, manufacturers seek to re-use a test wafer for more than one test. As test wafers are recycled, surface roughness and other defects progressively impair the ability of a wafer to complete tests accurately. SAPS technology can be applied to reduce random defect levels of a recycled wafer, enabling the test wafer to be reclaimed for use in additional testing processes. For these purposes, SAPS technology includes improved fan filter units that balances intake and exhaust flows, precise temperature and concentration controls that ensure better handling of concentrated acid processes, and two-chemical recycle capability that reduces chemical consumption. SAPS Equipment We offer two principal models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our SAPS technology, Ultra C SAPS II and Ultra C SAPS V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute chemicals, used to remove random defects from wafer surfaces or interconnects and barrier metals as part of the chip front-end fabrication process or for recycling test wafers. By combining our megasonic and chemical cleaning technologies, we have designed these tools to remove random defects with greater efficacy and efficiency than conventional wafer cleaning processes, with enhanced process flexibility and reduced quantities of chemicals. Each of our SAPS models was initially built to meet specific requirements of a key customer. SAPS II (released in 2011). Highlights of our SAPS II equipment include: compact design, with footprint of 2.65m x 4.10m x 2.85m (WxDxH), requiring limited clean room floor space; up to 8 chambers, providing throughput of up to 225 wafers per hour; double-sided cleaning capability, with up to 5 cleaning chemicals for process flexibility; 2-chemical recycling capability for reduced chemical consumption; image wafer detection method for lowering wafer breakage rates; and chemical delivery module for delivery of dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. SAPS V (released in 2014). SAPS V includes SAPS II features with the following upgrades: compact design, with footprint of 2.55m x 5.1m x 2.85m (WxDxH), requiring limited clean room floor space; up to 12 chambers, providing throughput of up to 375 wafers per hour; chemical supply system integrated into mainframe; inline mixing method replaces tank auto changing, reducing process time; and improved drying technology using hot isopropyl alcohol and de-ionized water. 10 Table of Contents TEBOTechnology, Applications and Equipment TEBO Technology We developed TEBO technology for application in wet wafer cleaning during the fabrication of 2D and 3D wafers with fine feature sizes. TEBO technology facilitates effective cleaning even with patterned features too small or fragile to be addressed by conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning technologies. TEBO technology solves the problems created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Cavitation is the formation of bubbles in a liquid, and transient cavitation is a process in which a bubble in fluid implodes or collapses. In conventional megasonic cleaning processes, megasonic energy forms bubbles and then causes those bubbles to implode or collapse, blasting destructive high-pressure, high-temperature micro jets toward the wafer surface. Our internal testing has confirmed that at any level of megasonic energy capable of removing random defects, the sonic energy and mechanical force generated by transient cavitation are sufficiently strong to damage fragile patterned structures with features less than 70nm. TEBO technology provides multi-parameter control of cavitation by using a sequence of rapid changes in pressure to force a bubble in liquid to oscillate at controlled sizes, shapes and temperatures, rather than implode or collapse. As a result, cavitation remains stable during TEBO megasonic cleaning processes, and a chip fabricator can, using TEBO technology, apply the level of megasonic energy needed to remove random defects without incurring the pattern damage created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning. We have demonstrated the damage-free or low-damage cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on customers patterned wafers as small as 1xnm (16nm to 19nm), and we believe TEBO technology will be applicable in even smaller fabrication process nodes. TEBO technology can be applied in manufacturing processes for conventional 2D chips with fine features and advanced chips with 3D structures, including Fin Field Effect Transistors or FinFET, DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory, and we expect it will be applicable to other 3D architectures developed in the future, such as carbon nanotubes and quantum devices. As a result of the thorough, controlled nature of TEBO processes, cleaning time for TEBO-based solutions may take longer than conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Conventional processes have proven ineffective, however, for process nodes of 20nm or less, and we believe the increased yield that can be achieved by using TEBO technology for nodes up to 70nm can more than offset the cost of the additional time in utilizing TEBO technology. TEBO Applications At process nodes of 28nm and less, chip makers face escalating challenges in eliminating nanometric particles and maintaining the condition of inside pattern surfaces. In order to maintain chip quality and avoid yield loss, cleaning technologies must control random defects of diminishing killer defect sizes, without roughing or otherwise damaging surfaces of transistors, interconnects or other wafer features. TEBO technology can be applied in numerous steps throughout the manufacturing process flow for effective, damage-free cleaning: Memory Chips: We estimate that TEBO technology can be applied in as many as 50 steps in the fabrication of a DRAM chip, consisting of up to 10 steps in cleaning ISO structures, 20 steps in cleaning buried gates, and 20 steps in cleaning high aspect-ratio storage nodes and stacked films. Logic Chips: In the fabrication process for a logic chip with a FinFET structure, we estimate that TEBO technology can be used in 15 or more cleaning steps. For purposes of solving inside pattern surface conditions for memory or logic chips, TEBO technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as RCA SC-1 and hydrogen gas doped functional water. TEBO Equipment We offer two models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our TEBO technology, Ultra C TEBO II and Ultra C TEBO V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute chemicals, used at numerous manufacturing processing steps for effective, damage-free cleaning of chips at process nodes of 28nm or less. TEBO equipment solves the problem of pattern damage caused by transient cavitation in conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning processes, providing better particle 11 Table of Contents removal efficiency with limited material loss or roughing. TEBO equipment is being evaluated by a select group of leading memory and logic chip customers. Each model of TEBO equipment includes: an equipment front-end module, or EFEM, which moves wafers from chamber to chamber. one or more chamber modules, each equipped with a TEBO megasonic generator system. an electrical module to provide power for the tool; and a chemical delivery module. Ultra C TEBO II (released in 2016). Highlights of our Ultra C TEBO II equipment include: compact design, with footprint of 2.25m x 2.25m x 2.85m (WxDxH); up to 8 chambers with an upgraded transport system and optimized robotic scheduler, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour. EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, transfer robot and 1 process robot; and focus on dilute chemicals contributes to environmental sustainability and lower cost of ownership. Ultra C TEBO V (released in 2016). Highlights of our Ultra C TEBO V equipment include: footprint of 2.45m x 5.30m x 2.85m (WxDxH). up to 12 chamber modules, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour. EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, 1 transfer robot and 1 process robot: and chemical delivery module for delivery of isopropyl alcohol, dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. Tahoe Overview Our Ultra-C Tahoe wafer cleaning tool can deliver high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. During normal single-wafer cleaning processes, only a fraction of the acid reacts with the wafer surface, while the majority is wasted as acid spins off the wafer and requires significant cost and effort to be recycled. Tahoe employs a proprietary hybrid approach in which the sulfuric acid cleaning steps are processed in batch mode, and the final stage cleaning are processed with single-wafer cleaning technologies. In addition to providing cost savings resulting from vastly reduced sulfuric acid consumption, Ultra-C Tahoe meets the needs of customers who face increased environmental regulations and demand new, more environmentally-friendly tools. Advanced Packaging and other Back-End Processing Tools We leverage our technology and expertise to provide a range of single-wafer tools for back-end wafer assembly and packaging factories. We develop, manufacture and sell a wide range of advanced packaging tools, such as coaters, developers, photoresist strippers, scrubbers, wet etchers and copper-plating tools. We focus on providing custom-made, differentiated equipment that incorporates customer-requested features at a competitive price. For example, our Ultra C Coater is used in applying photoresist, a light-sensitive material used in photolithography to transfer a pattern from a mask onto a wafer. Coaters typically provide input and output elevators, shuttle systems and other 12 Table of Contents devices to handle and transport wafers during the coating process. Unlike most coaters, the Ultra C Coater is fully automated. Based on requests from customers, we developed and incorporated the special function of chamber auto-clean module into the Ultra C Coater, which further differentiates it from other products in the market by reducing or eliminating the cleaning of shroud in the coater which increases the tools continuous production time. The Ultra C Coater is designed to deliver improved throughput and more efficient tool utilization while eliminating particle generation. Our other advanced packaging tools include: Ultra ECP ap, which delivers a uniform metal layer to finished wafers prior to packaging; Ultra C Developer, which applies liquid developer to selected parts of photoresist to resolve an image; Ultra C PR Megasonic-Assisted Stripper, which removes photoresist; Ultra C Scrubber, which scrubs and cleans wafers; Ultra C Thin Wafer Scrubber, which addresses a sub-market of cleaning very thin wafers for certain Asian assembly factories; and Ultra C Wet Etcher, which etches silicon wafers and copper and titanium interconnects. Our Customers Since 2009 we have delivered more than 1,120 tools to our customers, more than 920 of which were repeat orders or acceptances upon contractual performance obligations having been met and thereby generated revenue to us. The balance of the delivered tools is subject to the customer's acceptance of the tool upon the tool's satisfaction of applicable contractual requirements or subject to the customer's subsequent discretionary commitment to purchase the tool. To date, substantially all of our sales of equipment for semiconductor-manufacturing have been to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue from these products will continue to come from customers located in this region for the foreseeable future. We have begun to add to our efforts to further address customers in North America, Western Europe and Southeast Asia, by expanding our direct sales teams and increasing our global marketing activities. Our front-end customers have included: Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, together with Huahong Semiconductor Ltd., collectively known as The Shanghai Huahong (Group) Company, Ltd., or The Huali Huahong Group, a leading mainland China-based foundry; Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, a leading mainland China-based foundry; SK Hynix Inc., a leading Korean memory chip company; Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd., or YMTC, a leading mainland China-based memory chip company, together with one of its subsidiaries; ChangXin Memory Technologies, or CXMT, a leading mainland China-based memory chip company; Shenzhen Pengxinwei Integrated Circuit Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or PXW, a leading mainland China-based semiconductor foundry company; and SiEn, a leading mainland China-based power-semiconductor chip company. Our wafer assembly and packaging customers have included: Jiangyin Changdian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a mainland China-based wafer bumping packaging house that is a subsidiary of JCET Group Co., Ltd.; Nantong Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a mainland China-based chip assembly and testing company that is a subsidiary of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; Nepes Co., Ltd., a semiconductor packaging company based in Korea; and Wafer Works Corporation, a mainland China-based wafer supplier. In 2024, 52.2% of our revenue was derived from four customers: The Huali Huahong Group accounted for 14.7% of our revenue; SMIC accounted for 13.6% of our revenue; YMTC accounted for 12.0%% of our revenue; and PXW accounted for 11.9% of our revenue. In 2023, 45.5% of our revenue was derived from three customers: SMIC accounted for 16.7% of our revenue; SiEn accounted for 15.4% of our revenue; and CXMT; accounted for 13.4% of our revenue. In 2022, 43.8% of our revenue was derived from three customers: The Huali Huahong Group; accounted for 18.2% of our revenue; SMIC accounted for 15.6% of our revenue, and YMTC accounted for 10.0% of our revenue. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products worldwide using a combination of our direct sales force and third-party representatives. We employ direct sales teams in mainland China, the United States, Southeast Asia, and Europe. We also employ field application engineers, who are typically co-located with our direct sales teams, to provide technical pre- and post-sale support and other assistance to existing and potential customers throughout the customers fab planning and production line qualification and fab expansion phases. Our field application engineers are organized by end markets as well as core competencies in hardware, control system, software and process development to support our customers. To supplement our direct sales teams, we have contacts with several independent sales representatives in mainland China, Korea and Taiwan. We select these independent representatives based on their ability to provide effective field sales, 13 Table of Contents marketing forecast and technical requirement updates for our products. In the case of representatives, our customers place purchase orders with us directly rather than with the representatives. Our sales have historically been made using purchase orders with agreed technical specifications. Our sales terms and conditions are generally consistent with industry practice but may vary from customer to customer. We seek to obtain a purchase order two to six months ahead of the customers desired delivery date. Consistent with industry practice, we allow customers to reschedule or cancel orders at a certain cost to them on relatively short notice. Because of our relatively short delivery period and our practice of permitting rescheduling or cancellation, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue. Our marketing team focuses on our product strategy and technology road maps, product marketing, new product introduction processes, demand assessment and competitive analysis, customer requirement communication and public relations. Our marketing team also has the responsibility to conduct environmental scans, study industry trends and arrange our participation at major trade shows. Manufacturing We conduct a substantial majority of our product development, manufacturing, support and services in mainland China, with additional product development and subsystem production in Korea. Substantially all of our tools are built to order at our Chuansha manufacturing facilities in the Pudong region of Shanghai. In the fourth quarter of 2024, we began initial operations at our Lingang development and production center. The facility, when fully completed, is intended to comprise more than 1,000,000 square feet and incorporate state-of-the-art manufacturing systems and automation technologies to expand our production capacity and support additional research and development activities. See Item 2. Properties, of Part I of this report. We purchase some of the components and assemblies that we subsequently integrate into our products from a range of suppliers, some of which are single-source suppliers, and/or U.S. based suppliers which can no longer supply ACM Shanghai, ACM Korea and related entities as a result of recently enacted regulations including designations on the BIS Entity List. We believe that we can obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these components. Nevertheless, any delays or prolonged inability to obtain or to replace these components could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships. Please see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Our IndustryWe depend on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and assemblies, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs. Research and Development We believe that our success depends in part on our ability to develop and deliver breakthrough technologies and capabilities to meet our customers ever-more challenging technical requirements. For this reason, we devote significant financial and personnel resources to research and development. Our research and development team is comprised of highly skilled engineers and technologists with extensive experience in megasonic and other technologies, cleaning processes and chemistry, mechanical design, and control system design. For the foreseeable future we are focusing on enhancing our Ultra C SAPS, TEBO, Tahoe, ECP, furnace and other tools and integrating additional capabilities to meet and anticipate requirements from our existing and potential customers. Our particular areas of focus include development of the following: new cleaning steps for Ultra C SAPS cleaners for application in logic chips and for DRAM, and 3D NAND technologies. new cleaning steps for Ultra C TEBO cleaners for FinFET in logic chips, gates in DRAM, and deep vias in 3D NAND technologies. new cleaning steps for Ultra Tahoe cleaners for application in logic chips and for DRAM and 3D NAND technologies. new dry technologies such as supercritical CO2 dry and advanced IPA dry for DRAM, and logic technologies. new hardware, including new system platforms, new and additional chamber structures and new chemical blending systems; new software to integrate new functionalities to improve tool performance; and support for the ongoing evaluations and commercialization efforts and product extensions for the newly introduced PECVD and Track product categories. 14 Table of Contents Longer term, we are working on new proprietary process capabilities based on our existing tool hardware platforms. We are also working to integrate our tools with third-party tools in adjacent process areas in the chip manufacturing flow. Our research and development expense totaled $105.5 million or 13.5% of revenue in 2024, $92.7 million or 16.6% of revenue in 2023, and $62.2 million or 16.0% of revenue in 2022. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position. Intellectual Property Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We control access to and use of our proprietary technologies, software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, consultants, advisors, customers, partners and suppliers. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. All employees and consultants are required to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment and consulting relationships with us. We also require them to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived or made in connection with the employment or consulting relationship. We have aggressively pursued intellectual property since our founding in 1998. We focus our patent filing efforts in the United States, and, when justified by cost and strategic importance, we file corresponding foreign patent applications in strategic jurisdictions such as the European Union, mainland China, Japan, Singapore, Korea, and Taiwan. Our patent strategy is designed to provide a balance between the need for coverage in our strategic markets and the need to maintain costs at a reasonable level. As of December 31, 2024, we have been issued more than 537 patents in the United States, mainland China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, including 76 issued patents, and 32 patents pending, in the United States. These patents carry expiration dates from 2027 through 2039. Many of the US patents and applications have also been filed internationally, including one or more of the European Union, Japan, mainland China, Singapore, Korea, and Taiwan. Specifically, we own patents in wafer cleaning, electro-polishing and plating, wafer preparation, and other semiconductor processing technologies. We manufacture advanced single-wafer cleaning systems equipped with our SAPS, TEBO and Tahoe technologies. We have 63 patents granted internationally protecting our SAPS technologies, and we have filed 13 international patent applications for key TEBO technologies, and 5 for Tahoe, in accordance with the Patent Cooperation Treaty. In addition, we have patented technologies for SFP and ECP that are embedded in certain tools. We also have patented technologies in other semiconductor processing areas, including wafer preparation and several specific processing steps. To date we have not granted licenses to third parties under the patents described above. Not all of these patents have been implemented in products. We may enter into licensing or cross-licensing arrangements with other companies in the future. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets. Our customers could become the target of litigation relating to the patent or other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification. 15 Table of Contents Additional information about the risks relating to our intellectual property is provided under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Data Security. Competition The chip equipment industry is characterized by rapid change and is highly competitive throughout the world. We compete with semiconductor equipment companies located around the world, and we may also face competition from new and emerging companies, including new competitors from mainland China. We consider our principal competitors to be those companies that provide wafer cleaning and electrical plating products to the market, including Lam Research Corporation, NAURA Technology Group Co., Ltd., Mujin Electronics Co., Ltd., SCREEN SPE USA, LLC (a subsidiary of SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd.), SEMES Co. Ltd., Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Kokusai Semiconductor Equipment Corporation. Key competitors for our newly-introduced PECVD and Track products include Lam Research Corporation, Applied Materials, Inc., KINGSEMI Co., Ltd. and Suzhou Jingtuo Semiconductor Technology Co., Ltd. Compared to our company, our current and potential competitors may have: better established credibility and market reputations, longer operating histories, and broader product offerings; significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which may allow them to pursue design, development, manufacturing, sales, marketing, distribution and service support of their products; more extensive customer and partner relationships, which may position them to identify and respond more successfully to market developments and changes in customer demands; multiple product offerings, which may enable them to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. The principal competitive factors in our market include: performance of products, including particle removal efficiency, rate of damage to wafer structures, high temperature chemistry, throughput, tool uptime and reliability, safety, chemical waste treatment, and environmental impact; gap filling capability, the deposited film thickness uniformity within wafer and wafer to wafer, particle generated on the wafer during the processes; service support capability and spare parts delivery time; innovation and development of functionality and features that are must-haves for advanced fabrication nodes; ability to anticipate customer requirements, especially for advanced process nodes of less than 45nm; ability to identify new process applications; brand recognition and reputation; and skill and capability of personnel, including design engineers, manufacturing engineers and technicians, application engineers, and service engineers. In addition, semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new equipment into semiconductor production lines. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular suppliers equipment and qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that selection for that specific production application and technology node as long as the suppliers products demonstrate performance to specification in the installed base. Accordingly, we may experience difficulty in selling to a given manufacturer if that manufacturer has qualified a competitors equipment. If, however, that cleaning equipment constrains chip yield, we expect, based on our experience to date, that the manufacturer will evaluate implementing new equipment that cleans more effectively. Our People As of December 31, 2024, we had 2,023 full-time equivalent employees, of whom 165 were in administration, 328 were in manufacturing, 933 were in research and development, and 597were in sales and marketing and customer services. Of these employees, 1,839 were located in mainland China and the Taiwan region, 160 were located in Korea and 24 were based in the United States. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization or subject to any collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. We compete in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment industry, with operations principally in mainland China. Attracting, developing, and retaining skilled and experienced employees in research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and other positions is crucial to our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to recruit and retain such employees depends on a number of factors, including our corporate culture and work environment, informed by our values and behaviors, our corporate philosophy of talent development and career opportunities, and compensation and benefits. 16 Table of Contents To attract and retain qualified employees and key talent, we offer total compensation packages that are competitive with comparable companies, particularly in mainland China and, specifically, Shanghai. We provide training and development programs to our employees, and we have trained many of our key engineers and managers for more than a decade. Retention of these key employees is critical to secure our future growth and technology development. To assist in employee retention and recruitment, we offer employee housing in the Lingang region of Shanghai nearby our new research and development and production center. Environmental Severe weather events, including earthquakes, fires, floods, heat waves, hurricanes and other environmental disasters, could pose a threat to our manufacturing and research and development activities through physical damage to our operating facilities or equipment or disruption of power supply or telecommunications infrastructure. The frequency and intensity of severe weather events are reportedly increasing throughout the world as part of broader climate changes. Global weather pattern changes may also pose long-term risks of physical impacts to our business. We maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that would be implemented to help us recover in the event of severe weather events that interrupt our business. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsGeneralOur production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. Concerns about climate change have resulted in various laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions and address other environmental concerns. In recent years, mainland China, where our production facilities are located, has undertaken comprehensive sustainability initiatives that are requiring companies to meet new environmental standards and deal with higher energy and other production costs. Environmental laws and regulations may impose new or unexpected cost either directly through, for example, higher energy costs or indirectly through increased costs of compliance or of failing to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations might increase the cost of construction, maintenance and operation of our new research and development center and factory in the Lingang region of Shanghai. We do not currently expect that existing or pending climate change laws and regulations will be material to our results of operations in the foreseeable future. Climate change could, however, have a direct effect on our customer base of semiconductor fabricators, whose operations typically require copious quantities of power and water and a number of chemicals. Chip fabrication operations often result in significant amounts of wastewater, which can contain a number of harmful contaminants, including antimony, arsenic, hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide, that historically have resulted in groundwater pollution and related violations of environmental laws. Moreover, water and chemical demands for semiconductor fabrication are expected to increase with the production of more advanced chips at smaller process nodes. As a result, some leading chip fabricators have begun to invest in conservation and treatment technologies for water and chemicals. We have designed some of our tools to require significantly reduced levels of environmentally harmful chemicals, which helps customers face increased environmental laws and regulations. SAPS and TEBO technologies use environmentally friendly dilute chemicals, such as dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, ozonated de-ionized water and functional de-ionized water with dissolved hydrogen. In interconnect and barrier metals applications based on SAPS technology, for example, these chemical solutions take the place of chemicals such as piranha solution, a high-temperature mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide used by conventional wet wafer cleaning processes. Similarly, Tahoe technology delivers high cleaning performance using significantly less sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide than is typically consumed by conventional high-temperature single-wafer cleaning tools. For additional information, see Our Technology and Product OfferingsWet Cleaning Equipment for Front End Production Processes. Available Information We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our website at www.acmr.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 17 Table of Contents Investors should note that we announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our website (www.acmr.com), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors to review the information we post on these channels. We may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.acmr.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in