ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth and market opportunities, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010. When used in this report, the words expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of creative, business, Web and mobile software and services used by creative professionals, knowledge workers, developers, marketers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators, independent software vendors (ISVs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users and through our own Website at www.adobe.com. In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers, and provide some of our solutions via Software as a Service (SaaS), also known as hosted or cloud-based offerings. Our software runs on personal computers (PC) and server-based computers, as well as various non-PC and mobile devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a Website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC Website at www.sec.gov. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we modified our segments due to changes in how we operate our business. We split our prior Creative Solutions segment into two new segments: Creative and Interactive Solutions and Digital Media Solutions. Creative and Interactive Solutions contains our Creative Suite family of products including our professional page layout and Web layout products, whereas Digital Media Solutions contains our imaging and video products for professionals and hobbyists. We also merged our former Platform segment into the new Creative and Interactive Solutions segment to better align our focus with market trends and our opportunities. As part of our business unit reorganization, we also moved several products to different businesses. See Note 17 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Prior year information has been updated to reflect these changes. For our first quarter of fiscal 2011, we reported record revenue with strong financial results. Our performance was driven by strong adoption of our solutions across three strategic growth initiatives we are focused on: Content Authoring, Customer Experience Management ("CEM"), and Online Marketing. For comparative purposes, financial results for the three months ended March 5, 2010 benefited from an extra week in the quarter due to our 52/53 week financial calendar. This extra week had a favorable impact on our revenue in the year-ago quarter by approximately $35 million and related impact to expenses of approximately $20 million . Fiscal 2010 was a 53-week year, whereas fiscal 2011 is a 52-week year and our first quarter of fiscal 2011 contained one less week. In our Creative and Interactive Solutions segment, broad adoption of Adobe Creative Suite 5 ("CS5") family of products continued to drive the overall performance of our creative business. This resulted in 28% year-over-year growth in the segment. 28 Table of Contents Our Digital Media Solutions segment achieved 16% year-over-year growth, benefiting from the adoption of our CS5 image editing and video-authoring products during the quarter. Our Knowledge Worker segment achieved 10% year-over-year growth due to continued demand for our Acrobat X product which was released in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Our Enterprise segment also achieved strong year-over-year growth of 33% . We believe our increased investment in this business over the past several years, including our acquisition of Day Software Holding AG ("Day") in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, is beginning to result in improved financial performance in this segment. In our Omniture business, we continued to achieve strong momentum during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and achieved year-over-year growth of 16% . Driving this success was increased awareness of our Adobe Online Marketing Suite in the marketplace as well as maintaining strong bookings performance. The number of Omniture user transactions in the quarter was 1.38 trillion , an increase of 12% year-over-year versus the comparable period of time a year ago. Our Print and Publishing business segment decreased year-over-year, primarily due to the timing of Coldfusion product releases. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 4, 2011 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 3, 2010 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued updated accounting guidance related to the calculation of the carrying amount of a reporting unit when performing the first step of a goodwill impairment test. More specifically, this update will require an entity to use an equity premise when performing the first step of a goodwill impairment test and if a reporting unit has a zero or negative carrying amount, the entity must assess and consider qualitative factors and whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. The new accounting guidance is effective for public entities, for impairment tests performed during entities' fiscal years (and interim periods within those years) that begin after December 15, 2010. Early application is not permitted. We will adopt the new disclosures in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, however as we currently do not have any reporting units with a zero or negative carrying amount, we do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued updated accounting guidance to clarify that pro forma disclosures should be presented as if a business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior annual period for purposes of preparing both the current reporting period and the prior reporting period pro forma financial information. These disclosures should be accompanied by a narrative description about the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments. The new accounting guidance is effective for business combinations consummated in periods beginning after December 15, 2010, and should be applied prospectively as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. We will adopt the new disclosures in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. We do not believe that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Product $ 842.7 $ 703.9 20 % Percentage of total revenue 82 % 82 % Subscription 106.2 95.5 11 % Percentage of total revenue 10 % 11 % Services and support 78.8 59.3 33 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 7 % Total revenue $ 1,027.7 $ 858.7 20 % As described in Note 17 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , we have the following segments: Creative and Interactive Solutions, Digital Media Solutions, Knowledge Worker, Enterprise, Omniture and Print and Publishing. Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our hosted service offerings including our hosted online business optimization services. We recognize subscription revenues ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. Of the $106.2 million and $95.5 million in subscription revenue for the three months ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 , respectively, approximately $92.5 million and $83.9 million , respectively, is from our Omniture segment with the remaining amounts representing our other business offerings. Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted online business optimization services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings which entitle customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segment Information (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Creative and Interactive Solutions $ 424.8 $ 332.6 28 % Percentage of total revenue 41 % 39 % Digital Media Solutions 151.7 130.6 16 % Percentage of total revenue 15 % 15 % Knowledge Worker 181.8 165.9 10 % Percentage of total revenue 18 % 19 % Enterprise 104.8 78.9 33 % Percentage of total revenue 10 % 10 % Omniture 110.9 96.0 16 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 11 % Print and Publishing 53.7 54.7 (2 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % Total revenue $ 1,027.7 $ 858.7 20 % Revenue from Creative and Interactive Solutions increased $92.2 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . This year-over-year increase was driven by strong licensing of CS5. For the three months ended March 4, 2011 , our Creative Suite products related revenue increased 38% as compared to the same period in the prior year. The overall number of units licensed for Creative and Interactive Solutions increased when compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . Unit average selling prices remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year. 30 Table of Contents Revenue from Digital Media Solutions increased $21.1 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . This increase was due to increased licensing of our CS5 image editing and video authoring products. For the three months ended March 4, 2011 , our Photoshop point product revenue increased 14% as compared to the same period in the prior year. The overall number of units licensed for Digital Media Solutions increased when compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . Unit average selling prices remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Revenue from Knowledge Worker increased $15.9 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . We attribute this success to increased awareness and adoption of our new Acrobat X product, which shipped in the second half of fiscal 2010. The number of units licensed and unit average selling prices, excluding large enterprise license agreements ("ELA"), increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Revenue from Enterprise increased $25.9 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . The increase was primarily due to our addition of products from the acquisition of Day to our Enterprise offering and success in customer adoption as part of our CEM offering. Revenue from Omniture increased $14.9 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . This increase was due to adoption of our Online Marketing Suite offering. Revenue from Print and Publishing decreased $1.0 million during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 . The decrease was primarily due to the release of Coldfusion 9 at the end of fiscal 2009 for which a comparable release did not occur in the current period. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Americas $ 489.6 $ 408.4 20 % Percentage of total revenue 48 % 48 % EMEA 331.8 275.4 20 % Percentage of total revenue 32 % 32 % Asia 206.3 174.9 18 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 20 % Total revenue $ 1,027.7 $ 858.7 20 % Overall revenue for the three months ended March 4, 2011 increased when compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 , primarily due to the launch of CS5 in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as well as the addition of Day product revenue based on our acquisition of Day in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Increased revenue in our Digital Media Solutions and Knowledge Worker business segments also contributed to the year-over-year growth. The increase in revenue during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 in the Americas, EMEA and Asia was attributable to the factors noted above. As a result of the recent earthquakes and related events that occurred in Japan subsequent to our March 4, 2011 quarter-end, we believe that our operating results in Japan will be adversely impacted in the near term. 31 Table of Contents Included in the overall increase in revenue for the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below: (in millions) Three Months Revenue impact: Increase/(decrease) EMEA: Euro $ (16.0 ) British Pound (0.9 ) Other currencies 0.2 Total EMEA (16.7 ) Japanese Yen 8.4 Other currencies 2.4 Total revenue impact (5.9 ) Hedging impact: EMEA Japanese Yen Total hedging impact Total impact $ (5.9 ) During the three months ended March 4, 2011 , the U.S. Dollar strengthened against both the Euro and British Pound causing revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollars to decrease compared with the same reporting period last year. Revenue measured in both the Japanese Yen and Australian Dollar was favorably impacted as the U.S. Dollar weakened against these currencies. Our currency hedging programs resulted in no hedging gains as noted in the table above. Product Backlog The actual amount of product backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. Shippable backlog is comprised of unfulfilled orders, excluding those associated with new product releases, those pending credit review and those not shipped due to the application of our global inventory policy. We had no shippable backlog at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Our shippable backlog at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was approximately 5% of fourth quarter fiscal 2010 revenue. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Product $ 30.7 $ 23.6 30 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Subscription 47.9 45.7 5 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Services and support 29.0 20.1 44 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 2 % Total cost of revenue $ 107.6 $ 89.4 20 % Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. 32 Table of Contents Cost of product revenue increased due to the following: % Change 2011-2010 QTD Localization costs related to our product launches 13 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 9 Excess and obsolete inventory 5 Cost of sales 4 Royalty cost 1 Amortization of acquired rights to use technology (1 ) Various individually insignificant items (1 ) Total change 30 % Localization costs increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months March 5, 2010 primarily due to the launch of Acrobat X products during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Further, localization costs for CS4 products had been fully amortized as of the end of fiscal 2009. Amortization of purchased intangibles increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 , primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through acquisitions. Excess and obsolete inventory increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 due to reserve requirements primarily for Acrobat 9.0, Creative Suite and Photoshop point products. Cost of sales increased primarily due to the associated increase in shrink-wrap shipments of our Creative Suite and Photoshop point products. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third-parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third-parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount in addition to increases in data center costs related to higher transaction volumes. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 , primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Research and development $ 178.4 $ 174.3 2 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 20 % Sales and marketing 328.1 297.3 10 % Percentage of total revenue 32 % 35 % General and administrative 101.0 91.1 11 % Percentage of total revenue 10 % 11 % Restructuring charges 11.6 (100 )% Percentage of total revenue % 1 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 10.2 18.2 (44 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 2 % Total operating expenses $ 617.7 $ 592.5 4 % Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses The increase in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 was primarily driven by higher employee compensation due to additional headcount. For comparative purposes, the change in compensation during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 in the analysis which follows has been normalized for the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased due to the following: % Change 2011-2010 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 5 % Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation (1 ) Various individually insignificant items (2 ) Total change 2 % We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our application, tool and service offerings. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. 34 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: % Change 2011-2010 QTD Marketing spending related to product launches and overall marketing efforts to further increase revenue 6 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 5 Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation Various individually insignificant items (1 ) Total change 10 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: % Change 2011-2010 QTD Professional and consulting fees 6 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 4 Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 3 Various individually insignificant items (2 ) Total change 11 % Restructuring Charges Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in order to appropriately align our costs in connection with our fiscal 2010 operating plan, we initiated a restructuring plan consisting of reductions in workforce and the consolidation of facilities. The restructuring activities related to this program affect only those employees and facilities that were associated with Adobe prior to the acquisition of Omniture on October 23, 2009 . In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we continued to implement restructuring activities under this program. We vacated approximately 8,000 square feet of sales facilities in Australia, Canada, Denmark and the U.S. We accrued $0.4 million for the fair value of our future contractual obligations under those operating leases and we recorded charges of $11.9 million for termination benefits. We also recorded net adjustments of approximately $1.1 million to reflect net decreases in previously recorded estimates for termination benefits and facilities-related liabilities in addition to minor adjustments for fluctuations related to foreign currency translation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded minor adjustments for changes in previously recorded estimates and for fluctuations related to foreign currency translation. Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we initiated a restructuring program consisting of reductions in workforce and the consolidation of facilities, in order to reduce our operating costs and focus our resources on key strategic priorities. In connection with the restructuring plan, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for employee positions that were eliminated and for the closure of duplicative facilities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and 2011,we recorded minor adjustments for changes in previously recorded estimates and for fluctuations related to foreign currency translation. See Note 11 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our restructuring plans. 35 Table of Contents Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Amortization expense decreased 44% during the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 primarily due to a decrease in amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Macromedia that were fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2010. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ (0.8 ) $ 0.6 (233 )% Percentage of total revenue * * Interest expense (17.0 ) (7.7 ) 121 % Percentage of total revenue (2 )% (1 )% Investment gains (losses), net 1.6 (3.5 ) (146 )% Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (16.2 ) $ (10.6 ) 53 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes foreign exchange gains and losses, including those from hedging revenue transactions primarily denominated in Euro and Yen currencies, and gains and losses on fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 4, 2011 as compared to the three months ended March 5, 2010 increased in expense primarily due to increased foreign exchange losses partially offset by increased interest income due to higher investment balances and higher average interest rates on our investments. Interest Expense In February 2010, we issued $600.0 million of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2015 (the 2015 Notes) and $900.0 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes and, together with the 2015 Notes, the Notes). On February 1, 2010 , we repaid our $1.0 billion outstanding credit facility with a portion of the proceeds from our Notes. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to interest associated with higher borrowings resulting from the issuance of the Notes as well as an increase in our average borrowing rate due to the Notes. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities and unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities). Our net investment gains for the three months ended March 4, 2011 were due to gains from our direct and equity investments. Our net investment losses during the three months ended March 5, 2010 were due to unrealized losses related to our Adobe Ventures investments that did not recur during the three months ended March 4, 2011 due to the liquidation of holdings in our Adobe Ventures portfolio of companies at the end of fiscal 2010. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2011 and March 5, 2010 (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 % Change Provision $ 51.5 $ 39.1 32 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Effective tax rate 18.0 % 23.5 % Our effective tax rate decreased by approximately six percentage points for the three months ended March 4, 2011 . A nine percentage point decrease was primarily due to the reinstatement of the federal research and development tax credit in December 2010 and stronger forecasted international profits for fiscal 2011. The reinstatement of the credit was retroactive to January 1, 2010. A $15.2 million tax benefit for the credit relating to fiscal 2010 was reflected in its entirety in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. 36 Table of Contents This decrease was offset by a three percentage point increase for a one-time charge that was related to our acquisition of Demdex. The charge was the tax cost of inter-company transactions necessary to license certain Demdex assets to Adobe's trading companies so that Demdex's services can be offered to our customers from Adobe companies. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the U.S., we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. Currently, there are a significant amount of foreign earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 4, 2011 was $163.5 million , exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 4, 2011 were recognized in the future, $147.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $16.2 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. As of March 4, 2011 , the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was approximately $15.2 million . This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $5 million . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (in millions) March 4, 2011 December 3, 2010 Cash and cash equivalents $ 900.2 $ 749.9 Short-term investments $ 1,736.7 $ 1,718.1 Working capital $ 2,365.3 $ 2,148.0 Stockholders equity $ 5,425.4 $ 5,192.4 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) 2011 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 332.1 $ 259.9 Net cash used for investing activities (95.1 ) (208.7 ) Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities (86.5 ) 540.1 Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.2 ) (1.3 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 150.3 $ 590.0 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses; general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent; and cost of product revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from the exercise of employee options and participation in the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). Another use of cash is our stock repurchase program, which is described below. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $332.1 million for the three months ended March 4, 2011 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income 37 Table of Contents coupled with decreases in trade receivables and increases in deferred revenue. Trade receivables decreased primarily from product that was shipped in the second half of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and collected during the first quarter of 2011. Increases in deferred revenue related primarily to billing of annual maintenance and support renewals in the first months of the fiscal year, combined with increased activity for Omniture hosted services. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued expenses primarily related to the payment of fiscal 2010 bonuses in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. During the three months ended March 4, 2011, we also made our second semi-annual interest payment associated with our Notes totaling $31.1 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $95.1 million for the three months ended March 4, 2011 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments, offset in part by maturities and sales of short-term investments. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 4, 2011 represented the acquisition of Demdex as well as the purchases of property and equipment and long-term investments and other assets. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $86.5 million for the three months ended March 4, 2011 was primarily due to treasury stock repurchases offset in part by proceeds from our treasury stock issuances. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Restructuring During the past several years, we have initiated various restructuring plans. Currently, we have the following four active restructuring plans, two of which were the result of large acquisitions: Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan Omniture Restructuring Plan Macromedia Restructuring Plan As of March 4, 2011, we have accrued total restructuring charges of approximately $14.1 million of which approximately $2.0 million relates to ongoing termination benefits and contract terminations and are expected to be paid during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The remaining $12.1 million relates to the cost of closing redundant facilities and are expected to be paid under contract through fiscal 2021 of which over 75% will be paid through 2015. During the three months ended March 4, 2011 , we made payments related to the above restructuring plans totaling approximately $2.6 million which consisted of approximately $2.1 million related to the cost of closing redundant facilities and approximately $0.5 million related to termination benefits and contract terminations. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the cash outlays for the restructuring actions described above. See Note 11 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our restructuring plans. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during the remainder of fiscal 2011 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. A majority of our cash and investments are held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would be required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. 38 Table of Contents Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. As of March 4, 2011 , the amount outstanding under the Notes was $1.5 billion . On February 1, 2010 , we used $1.0 billion of the proceeds from this offering to pay the outstanding balance on our credit facility. The remainder of the proceeds from the Notes are available for general corporate purposes. There is no outstanding balance under our credit facility and the entire $1.0 billion credit line under this facility remains available for borrowing. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 63% of our consolidated invested balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 . The fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities, municipal securities, corporate bonds and foreign government securities. Stock Repurchase Program During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to our stock repurchase program authorized in April 2007 from a non-expiring share-based authority to a time-constrained dollar-based authority. As part of this amendment, the Board of Directors granted authority to repurchase up to $1.6 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2012. During the three months ended March 4, 2011 , we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution, whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $125.0 million . We did not enter into any new structured repurchase agreements during the three months ended March 5, 2010 . We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 4, 2011 , we repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares at an average price of $32.84 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during the three months ended March 4, 2011 . During the three months ended March 5, 2010 , we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares at an average price of $36.21 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2009. Subsequent to March 4, 2011 , as part of our $1.6 billion stock repurchase program, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $420.0 million . This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon completion of the $420.0 million stock repurchase agreement, $455.0 million remains under our time-constrained dollar-based authority. See Note 12 and Note 18 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our stock repurchase program. Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 4, 2011 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 3, 2010 . Our principal commitments as of March 4, 2011 consist of obligations under operating leases, capital leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. There have been no significant changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 4, 2011 . See Notes 14 and 15 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. Notes Interest on our Notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1, commencing on August 1, 2010 . At March 4, 2011 , our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $462.8 million . Financial Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a certain maximum leverage ratio. Our leases for the East and West Towers and the Almaden Tower are both subject to standard covenants including certain financial ratios as 39 Table of Contents defined in the lease agreements that are reported to the lessors quarterly. As of March 4, 2011 , we were in compliance with all of our covenants. Our Notes do not contain any financial covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Guarantees The lease agreements for our corporate headquarters provide for residual value guarantees. The fair value of a residual value guarantee in lease agreements entered into after December 31, 2002, must be recognized as a liability on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. As such, we recognized $5.2 million and $3.0 million in liabilities, related to the extended East and West Towers and Almaden Tower leases, respectively. These liabilities are recorded in other long-term liabilities with the offsetting entry recorded as prepaid rent in other assets. The balance will be amortized to our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income over the life of the leases. As of March 4, 2011 and December 3, 2010 , the unamortized portion of the fair value of the residual value guarantees, for both leases, remaining in other long-term liabilities and prepaid rent was $0.6 million and $0.7 million , respectively. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the director's or officer's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. During fiscal 2010, our limited partnership interest in Adobe Ventures was dissolved and all remaining assets were distributed to the partners. As part of this limited partnership interest, we provided a general indemnification to Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures, for certain events or occurrences while Granite Ventures was serving at our request in such capacity provided that Granite Ventures acted in good faith on behalf of the partnership.