ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition, the amount of recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2018. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and certain local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators (SIs), independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2019 , we reported strong financial results consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Experience, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile apps and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich and immersive content. Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users on account of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content 36 Table of Contents in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new desktop and mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Adobe Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated cloud-based document services, including Adobe Sign. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC, with a touch-enabled user interface, is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in fiscal 2019 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2019 and held constant throughout the year. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR On December 1, 2018, the beginning of our fiscal year 2019, we adopted the requirements of the new revenue standard utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition. We began to report our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 under the new revenue standard. The impact of the adoption was not significant to our results of operations. Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $6.21 billion , up from $5.92 billion at the end of fiscal 2018 . Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $856 million , up from $791 million at the end of fiscal 2018 . Total Digital Media ARR grew to $7.07 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , up from $6.71 billion at the end of fiscal 2018 . Included in the net change in our ARR during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was an approximately $20 million adjustment from adoption of the new revenue standard. Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $1.49 billion , up from $1.23 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , representing 22% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $281.7 million , up from $231.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as we continue to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $1.78 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , up from $1.46 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , representing 22% year-over-year growth. 37 Table of Contents We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. Our Digital Experience business provides comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, marketing automation, audience management, commerce, premium video delivery and monetization. These comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. Our hierarchy of solutions in the Digital Experience segment, available in our Adobe Experience Cloud, consists of the following cloud offerings: Adobe Advertising Clouddelivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across traditional TV and digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens. Adobe Analytics Cloudenables businesses to move from insights to actions in real time by uniquely integrating audiences as the core system of intelligence for the enterprise; makes data available across all Adobe clouds through the capture, aggregation, rationalization and understanding of vast amounts of disparate data and then translating that data into singular customer profiles; includes Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager. Adobe Marketing Cloudprovides an integrated set of solutions to help marketers differentiate their brands and engage their customers, helping businesses manage, personalize, and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys; includes Adobe Experience Manager (AEM), Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target, Marketo Engagement Platform and Adobe Primetime. Magento Commerce Cloudprovides digital commerce, order management and predictive intelligence based on a unified commerce platform enabling shopping experiences across a wide array of industries. In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, digital marketers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers and marketing executives. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. We achieved record Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $743.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , representing 34% year-over-year growth. Driving the increase in Adobe Experience Cloud revenue was the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings which grew to $611.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from $430.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , representing 42% year-over-year growth. Largely contributing to the increase in Digital Experience subscription revenue was revenue associated with Marketos B2B engagement platform offerings and Magentos commerce cloud offerings. We expect that the addition of Marketo and Magento, and continued demand across our portfolio of Adobe Experience Cloud solutions, will drive revenue growth in future years. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, business combinations and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates and 38 Table of Contents consequently, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. Other than the addition of revenue recognition to our critical accounting policies below, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 1, 2019 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2018 . Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers may include multiple goods and services. For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services. Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment. We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided. In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams. We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition discussed above, and those included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 are presented in accordance with the new revenue standard that was adopted under the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal 2019. Prior period results have not been restated which limits the comparability of our results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. Refer to the Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details about our recent adoption. Financial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2019 Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $7.07 billion as of March 1, 2019 increased by $357 million , or 5% , from $6.71 billion as of November 30, 2018 . The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to strong adoption of our Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud offerings and, to a lesser extent, an adjustment from adoption of the new revenue standard. Creative revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2019 of $1.49 billion increased by $265.4 million , or 22% compared to the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings, slightly offset by the impact of Creative revenue reclassification to Document Cloud revenue as a result of adoption of the new revenue standard. Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $743.3 million during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased by $189.2 million , or 34% , compared to the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue driven by the addition of Magento and Marketo, which we acquired in the later part of fiscal 2018. Our total deferred revenue of $3.22 billion as of March 1, 2019 increased by $164.6 million , or 5% , from $3.05 billion as of November 30, 2018 primarily due to increases in new contracts and the timing of renewals related to our Digital Experience offerings. To a lesser extent, deferred revenue from Magento and Marketo also contributed to the increase. 39 Table of Contents Cost of revenue of $397.3 million during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased by $138.4 million , or 53% , compared to the year-ago period primarily due to increases in amortization of purchased intangibles and hosting services and data center costs. Operating expenses of $1.51 billion during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased by $391.5 million , or 35% , compared to the year-ago period primarily due to increases in base compensation and related benefits costs and stock-based compensation expense associated with headcount growth. Net income of $674.2 million during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased by $91.2 million , or 16% , compared to the year-ago period primarily due to increases in subscription revenue and the decrease in the provision for income taxes. Net cash flow from operations of $1.01 billion during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased by $23.8 million , or 2% , compared to the year-ago period primarily due to higher net income. Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Subscription $ 2,305.0 $ 1,793.3 29 % Percentage of total revenue 88 % 86 % Product 170.5 171.6 (1 )% Percentage of total revenue 7 % 8 % Services and support 125.4 114.0 10 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % Total revenue $ 2,600.9 $ 2,078.9 25 % Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of our agreements with customers, beginning with commencement of service. We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 is as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Digital Media $ 1,663.7 $ 1,334.6 25 % Digital Experience 611.9 430.9 42 % Publishing 29.4 27.8 6 % Total subscription revenue $ 2,305.0 $ 1,793.3 29 % Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise products and the sale of our cloud-hosted Adobe Experience Cloud services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers. 40 Table of Contents Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Digital Media $ 1,776.6 $ 1,460.5 22 % Percentage of total revenue 68 % 70 % Digital Experience 743.3 554.1 34 % Percentage of total revenue 29 % 27 % Publishing 81.0 64.3 26 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Total revenue $ 2,600.9 $ 2,078.9 25 % Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $316.1 million during the three months ended March 1, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative and Document Cloud offerings. Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetually licensed Creative and stock photography offerings, increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue across all of our Creative Cloud offerings driven by the increase in net new subscriptions. Adobe Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the year ago period primarily due to increases in Document Cloud subscription revenue. Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $189.2 million during the three months ended March 1, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to the revenue associated with our Magento Commerce Cloud and Marketo Engagement Platform offerings which were both acquired in fiscal 2018. Also contributing to the increase, but to a lesser extent, was growth in subscription revenue driven by the continued adoption of our Adobe Experience Manager offerings which are part of our Marketing Cloud. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Americas $ 1,509.9 $ 1,170.7 29 % Percentage of total revenue 58 % 56 % EMEA 702.9 587.2 20 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 28 % APAC 388.1 321.0 21 % Percentage of total revenue 15 % 16 % Total revenue $ 2,600.9 $ 2,078.9 25 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2019 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to increases in Digital Media and Digital Experience revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. 41 Table of Contents Included in the overall change in revenue for the three months ended March 1, 2019 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below. Our currency hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the foreign currency impact to revenue. (in millions) Three Months Revenue impact: Increase/ (Decrease) Euro $ (6.7 ) British Pound (3.7 ) Japanese Yen 1.3 Other currencies (5.6 ) Total revenue impact (14.7 ) Hedging impact: Euro 6.0 British Pound 1.6 Japanese Yen 0.9 Total hedging impact 8.5 Total impact $ (6.2 ) During the three months ended March 1, 2019 , the U.S. Dollar strengthened against EMEA and other currencies which decreased revenue in U.S. Dollar equivalents. The foreign currency impact to revenue was offset in part by hedging gains primarily from our EMEA currencies hedging program. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Subscription $ 288.0 $ 164.7 75 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 8 % Product 12.1 12.9 (6 )% Percentage of total revenue * 1 % Services and support 97.2 81.3 20 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 4 % Total cost of revenue $ 397.3 $ 258.9 53 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party royalties and expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third parties for hosting services and use of data center facilities. Our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our Advertising Cloud offerings. 42 Table of Contents Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 due to the following: % Change Amortization of purchased intangibles 25 % Hosting services and data center costs 17 Media costs 8 Royalty costs 4 Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 5 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 5 Software licenses 4 Various individually insignificant items 7 Total change 75 % Amortization of purchased intangibles increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to amortization of intangible assets purchased through our acquisitions of Magento and Marketo in fiscal 2018. Hosted services and data center costs increased during the same period due to higher hosting costs for Digital Experience, including costs associated with our Magento and Marketo offerings which were acquired in the later part of fiscal 2018. Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue remained stable during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 . Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 due to the following: % Change Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 9 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 9 Professional and consulting fees (1 ) Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 20 % 43 Table of Contents Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Research and development $ 464.6 $ 348.8 33 % Percentage of total revenue 18 % 17 % Sales and marketing 781.5 581.0 35 % Percentage of total revenue 30 % 28 % General and administrative 216.1 170.4 27 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 8 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 46.6 17.1 ** Percentage of total revenue 2 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 1,508.8 $ 1,117.3 35 % _________________________________________ (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expenses The increases in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 were primarily due to increases in stock-based compensation expenses and base compensation and related benefits costs associated with headcount growth. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, third party fees for hosting services, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 due to the following: % Change Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 13 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 9 Seminars and events 4 Professional and consulting fees 4 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 33 % The increase in seminars and events during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily due to a technical event for our engineers which was held during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that did not occur in the year-ago period. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, amortization of contract acquisitions costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. 44 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 due to the following: % Change Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 7 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 10 Marketing spend related to offering launches and overall marketing efforts 10 Professional and consulting fees 2 Amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions 1 Various individually insignificant items 5 Total change 35 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 due to the following: % Change Professional and consulting fees 13 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 4 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 4 Software licenses 2 Facilities 1 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 27 % Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Amortization expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Marketo and Magento in the later part of fiscal 2018. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 4.3 $ 16.7 (74 )% Percentage of total revenue * 1 % Interest expense (40.6 ) (19.9 ) 104 % Percentage of total revenue (2 )% (1 )% Investment gains (losses), net 43.8 3.0 ** Percentage of total revenue 2 % * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ 7.5 $ (0.2 ) ** _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. 45 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses other than any gains recorded to revenue from our hedging programs. Interest and other income (expense), net decreased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to lower average invested balances and lower interest rates. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest associated with our Term Loan, senior notes and interest rate swaps. Interest on our Term Loan is payable periodically at the end of each interest period, whereas interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps are paid monthly. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. See Notes 6 and 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to interest on our Term Loan which was entered into in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Investment gains increased during the three months ended March 1, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018 primarily due to the gain recognized upon our acquisition of the remaining interest in Allegorithmic in January 2019, which was accounted for as an equity-method investment immediately before the acquisition. See Note 3 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our acquisition of Allegorithmic. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2019 2018 % Change Provision $ 28.1 $ 119.4 (76 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 6 % Effective tax rate 4 % 17 % Our effective tax rate decreased by 13 percentage points for the three months ended March 1, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2018, primarily due to provisional accounting for the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) in the period ended March 2, 2018. The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 lowered the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018. Beginning in our fiscal 2019, the annual statutory federal corporate tax rate is 21% and certain international provisions of the Tax Act, such as a tax on global intangible low-tax income, a base erosion and anti-abuse tax, and a special tax deduction for foreign-derived intangible income, take effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed regulations that could impact the calculation of taxes related to these provisions and which are anticipated to be applicable on a retrospective basis. While the Company continues to evaluate the potential impact, such regulations have not been finalized and are subject to change. We will account for the new regulations in the period of enactment. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we considered all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. On the basis of this evaluation, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance related primarily to the realizability of state and foreign credits of $185.2 million as of the period ended March 1, 2019. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. The Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017, including certain earnings 46 Table of Contents that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $194.4 million and $156.7 million as of March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018, respectively. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 were recognized in the future, $146.1 million and $110.6 million would decrease the respective effective tax rates, which were net of estimated $48.3 million and $46.1 million federal benefits related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $23.6 million and $20.0 million for the three months ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018, respectively. These amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable in their respective years. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and long-term assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $45.0 million. In addition, in the United States, the European Commission, countries in the European Union and other countries where we do business, we are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. These countries and other governmental bodies have or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in our income tax returns filed in such jurisdictions. Moreover, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for adjustments that may result from these examinations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of (in millions) March 1, 2019 November 30, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,738.8 $ 1,642.8 Short-term investments $ 1,487.4 $ 1,586.2 Working capital $ (180.0 ) $ 555.9 Stockholders equity $ 9,871.5 $ 9,362.1 Working Capital Working capital as of March 1, 2019 and November 30, 2018 was $180.0 million of a deficit and $555.9 million of a surplus, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to the reclassification of $898.7 million carrying value of our $900 million 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (2020 Notes) to current liabilities which we intend to refinance on or before the due date. 47 Table of Contents A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 1, 2019 March 2, 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,013.4 $ 989.6 Net cash used for investing activities (131.9 ) (93.7 ) Net cash used for financing activities (783.9 ) (541.3 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (1.5 ) 6.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 96.1 $ 360.9 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. The primary uses of cash are our stock repurchase program as described below, payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other uses of cash include business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $1.01 billion for the three months ended March 1, 2019 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with an increase in deferred revenue and decrease in accounts receivable, which were offset in large part by cash outflows due to an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily driven by an increase in Digital Experience hosted services as well as increases related to our acquisitions of Marketo and Magento in the later part of fiscal 2018. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily driven by strong collections. The primary working capital use of cash was due to increases in prepaid expenses driven by the timing of billings and payments associated with our use of third-party hosting services and increases in prepaid payroll related to employee benefits. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $131.9 million for the three months ended March 1, 2019 was primarily due to our acquisition of the remaining interest in Allegorithmic, purchases of property and equipment and long-term investments and other assets, including a deposit related to the procurement of a corporate jet. These cash outflows were offset primarily by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. See Note 3 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our acquisition of Allegorithmic. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $783.9 million for the three months ended March 1, 2019 was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, which were offset by proceeds from reissuance of treasury stock. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2019 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. We have a $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of lenders, providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries through October 17, 2023. As of March 1, 2019 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. 48 Table of Contents As of March 1, 2019 , we have a $2.25 billion Term Loan outstanding due April 30, 2020 and $1.9 billion senior notes outstanding, consisting of the 2020 Notes and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 (2025 Notes, and together with the 2020 Notes, Notes). The Notes and Term Loan rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we reclassified $898.7 million as current debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, which represents the 2020 Notes, net of unamortized original issuance discount. We intend to refinance the current portion of our debt on or before the due date. Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate debt securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In May 2018, our Board of Directors granted us additional authority to repurchase up to $8 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2021. During the three months ended March 1, 2019 and March 2, 2018 , we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $500 million and $300 million , respectively. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the expected foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 1, 2019 , we repurchased approximately 2.1 million shares at an average price of $237.13 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2018 and the three months ended March 1, 2019 . During the three months ended March 2, 2018 we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares at an average price of $185.13 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2017 and the three months ended March 2, 2018 . For the three months ended March 1, 2019 , the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by March 1, 2019 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of March 1, 2019 , $159.1 million of prepayment remained under this agreement. Subsequent to March 1, 2019 , as part of the May 2018 stock repurchase authority, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $750 million . Upon completion of the $750 million stock repurchase agreement, $6.60 billion remains under our May 2018 authority. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of March 1, 2019 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 1, 2019 . See Notes 13 and 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments. Transition Taxes Liability As a result of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, an accrued transition tax liability of approximately $0.5 billion is payable in installments through fiscal 2026. The Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017, including certain earnings that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. 49 Table of Contents Term Loan As of March 1, 2019 , our Term Loans carrying value was $2.25 billion . At our election, the Term Loan will bear interest at either (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.500% to 1.000% or (ii) a base rate plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.040% to 0.110% . Interest is payable periodically, in arrears, at the end of each interest period we elect. Based on the LIBOR rate at March 1, 2019 , our estimated maximum commitment for interest payments was $87.2 million for the remaining duration of the Term Loan. Senior Notes As of March 1, 2019 , carrying value of our Notes payable was $1.88 billion . Interest on our Notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 1, 2019 , our maximum commitment for interest payments was $237.8 million for the remaining duration of our Notes. Covenants Our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Agreement contain similar financial covenants requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of March 1, 2019 , we were in compliance with this covenant. We believe this covenant will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Agreement, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or if one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes See Results of Operations, Provision for Income Taxes above for our discussion on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.