ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth and market opportunities, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2009. When used in this report, the words expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of creative, business, Web and mobile software and services used by creative professionals, knowledge workers, consumers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), developers and enterprises for creating, managing, delivering, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators, independent software vendors (ISVs) and OEMs, direct to end users and through our own Website at www.adobe.com. We also license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers , and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of all sizes. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia. Our software runs on personal computers with Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac OS, Linux, UNIX and various non-PC platforms, depending on the product. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a Website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC Website at www.sec.gov. ACQUISITION OF OMNITURE On October 23, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Omniture, Inc. (Omniture), an industry leader in Web analytics and online business optimization based in Orem, Utah, for approximately $1.8 billion. We expect the acquisition to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We expect our revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses to increase in the future, but we also anticipate revenue and cost saving synergies. Coinciding with the integration of Omniture, we created a new reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. The discussions in this section of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the financial statements contained herein, reflect the impact of the acquisition. See Note 2 of o ur Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this acquisition . OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, to better align our marketing efforts and go-to-market strategies, we moved management responsibility for the Connect Solutions product line from our Knowledge Worker segment to our Enterprise segment. Prior year information has been updated to reflect this change. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we reported strong financial revenue and profit results as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Our worldwide business continued to experience stability that we initially started to see during the last half of fiscal 2009. With a more stable economic environment in our major markets, end-user demand for most of our products, including our Adobe Creative Suite family of products and our Adobe Acrobat family of products, improved during the quarter. Our first quarter fiscal 2010 financial results also benefitted from an extra week in the quarter due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2010 is a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2009 which was a 52-week year. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS In our Creative Solutions segment, hobbyist product revenue was strong, and revenue for our CS4 family of products, which began shipping in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, remained stable. However, overall CS4 product family revenue continued to lag the revenue achieved for the equivalent CS3 products for the comparable period of time by approximately 20%. We attribute this overall product family weakness to the economic conditions which affected the business throughout fiscal 2009. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we expect to ship new CS5 versions of our creative professional family of products. Our Knowledge Worker segment experienced a pick-up in demand for our Acrobat product family in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to first quarter of fiscal 2009. We attribute this improvement to the stable and improving economic conditions in the major markets and geographies where we focus on Acrobat adoption. Our Enterprise segment grew slightly on a year-over-year basis. Adoption and revenue strength of our Connect web-conferencing solutions offset weaker-than-expected revenue for our LiveCycle family of products which we attribute to longer sales cycles, as well as lower LiveCycle OEM partner revenue. In our Omniture business, the success and momentum we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 continued into the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We achieved stronger-than-expected revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, driven by variable subscription revenues, consulting services and certain fees recognized as revenue only upon cash collection. Also contributing to the increase in revenue was the favorable impact of an extra week in the quarter. Our Platform and our Print and Publishing business segments achieved revenue results in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 which were consistent with our expectations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Bo ard of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. With the exception of the discussion below, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 27, 2009. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE), third-party evidenc e (TPE) or estimated selling price (ESP), as applicable; and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements based on the relative selling price method. Changes in assumptions or judgments or changes to the elements in a software arrangement could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards for certain multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using the best estimated selling price (BESP) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of selling price or third-party evidence (TPE) of selling price; and eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our fiscal quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after November 27, 2009. For multiple element arrangements that contain non-software related elements, for example our software as a service (SaaS) offerings, we allocate revenue to each non-software element based upon the relative selling price of each and if software and software-related elements are also included in the arrangement, to those elements as a group based on our BESP for the group. When applying the relative selling price method, we determine the selling price for each deliverable using VSOE of selling price, if it exists, or TPE of selling price. If neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price exist for a deliverable, we use our BESP for that deliverable. Revenue allocated to each element is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria is met for each element. The manner in which we account for multiple element arrangements that contain only software and software-related elements remains unchanged. Consistent with our methodology under previous accounting guidance, we determine VSOE of fair value for each element based on historical stand-alone sales to third-parties or from the stated renewal rate for the elements contained in the initial software license arrangement. In certain instances, we were not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to us infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products or services within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, we attempt to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our offerings contain significant differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we typically are not able to obtain TPE of selling price. When we are unable to establish selling prices using VSOE or TPE, we use BESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP is generally used for offerings that are not typically sold on a stand-alone basis or for new or highly customized offerings. We determine BESP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives and pricing practices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and formal approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategy. We regularly review VSOE and have established a review process for TPE and BESP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There was no material impact to revenue during the three months ended March 5, 2010 resulting from changes in VSOE, TPE or BESP, nor do we expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Given the nature of our transactions, which are primarily software and software-related, our go-to-market strategies and our pricing practices, total net revenue as reported during the three months ended March 5, 2010 is materially consistent with total net revenue that would have been reported if the transactions entered into or materially modified after November 27, 2009 were subject to previous accounting guidance. The new accounting standards for revenue recognition, if applied in the same manner to the year ended November 27, 2009, would not have had a material impact on total net revenues for that fiscal year. In terms of the timing and pattern of 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS revenue recognition, the new accounting guidance for revenue recognition is not expected to have a significant effect on total net revenues in periods after the initial adoption. However, we expect that this new accounting guidance will facilitate our efforts to optimize our offerings due to better alignment between the economics of an arrangement and the accounting. This may lead to us to engage in new go-to-market practices in the future. In particular, we expect that the new accounting standards will enable us to better integrate products and services without VSOE into existing offerings and solutions. As these go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple elemen t arrangements could differ materially from the results in the current period. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between elements may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We are currently unable to determine the impact that the newly adopted accounting principles could have on our revenue as these go-to-market strategies evolve. In addition to multiple element arrangements, we must estimate certain royalty revenue amounts due to the timing of securing information from our customers. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, our assumptions and judgments regarding future products and services as well as our estimates of royalty revenue could differ from actual events, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. Product revenue is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce the revenue recognized for estimated future returns, price protection and rebates at the time the related revenue is recorded. In determining our estimate for returns and in accordance with our internal policy regarding global channel inventory which is used to determine the level of product held by our distributors on which we have recognized revenue, we rely upon historical data, the estimated amount of product inventory in our distribution channel, the rate at which our product sells through to the end user, product plans and other factors. Our estimated provisions for returns can vary from what actually occurs. Product returns may be more or less than what was estimated. The amount of inventory in the channel could be different than what is estimated. Our est imate of the rate of sell through for product in the channel could be different than what actually occurs. There could be a delay in the release of our products. These factors and unanticipated changes in the economic and industry environment could make our return estimates differ from actual returns, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. We offer price protection to our distributors that allows for the right to a credit if we permanently reduce the price of a software product. When evaluating the adequacy of the price protection allowance, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our products, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories. Changes to these assumptions or in the economic environment could result in higher returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protection may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. We recognize revenues for hosting services that are based on a committed number of transactions, including implementation and set-up fees, ratably beginning on the date the customer commences use of our services and continuing through the end of the customer term. Over-usage fees, and fees billed based on the actual number of transactions from which we capture data, are billed in accordance with contract terms as these fees are incurred. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our consulting revenue is recognized using the proportionate performance method and a time and materials basis and is measured monthly based on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Accordingly, our estimates of consulting revenue could differ from actual events and may materially impact our financial position and results of operations. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Product $ 703.9 $ 729.9 Percentage of total revenue 82 % 93 % Subscription 95.5 12.3 Percentage of total revenue 11 % 1 % Services and support 59.3 44.2 Percentage of total revenue 7 % 6 % Total revenue $ 858.7 $ 786.4 As described in Note 18 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , we have the following segments: Creative Solutions, Knowledge Worker, Enterprise, Omniture, Platform, and Print and Publishing. Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our hosted service offerings including our hosted online business optimization services. We recognize subscription revenues ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. Of the $95.5 million in subscription revenue, approximately $77 million is from our Omniture segment with the remaining amount representing our other business offerings. Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted online business optimization services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings which entitle customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segment Information (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Percent Change Creative Solutions $ 432.0 $ 460.7 (6 )% Percentage of total revenue 50 % 59 % Knowledge Worker 165.9 149.9 11 % Percentage of total revenue 19 % 19 % Enterprise 79.9 77.1 4 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 10 % Omniture 87.7 * Percentage of total revenue 10 % % Platform 46.6 52.3 (11 )% Percentage of total revenue 6 % 7 % Print and Publishing 46.6 46.4 * Percentage of total revenue 6 % 5 % Total revenue $ 858.7 $ 786.4 9 % _________________________________________ * Percentage is not meaningful. Revenue from Creative Solutions decreased $28.7 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. This year-over-year decrease was driven largely by a 12% decline in Creative Suites related revenue and a decline of 2% in Photoshop point product revenue. A significant factor in these year-over-year declines was the Japanese launch (as well as other foreign language releases) of the CS4 family of products in the year-ago quarter. No comparable launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The overall number of units licensed for Creative Solutions remained relatively stable while unit average selling prices increased slightly when compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. Revenue from Knowledge Worker increased $16.0 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. We attribute this improvement to the stable and improving economic conditions in the major markets and geographies where we focus on Acrobat adoption in addition to an increase in the number of units licensed. Unit average selling prices, excluding large enterprise license agreement (ELA) deals, have 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS remained relatively stable for the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. Revenue from Enterprise increased $2.8 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. The increase was primarily due to strong growth with our Connect family of product solutions, which offset modest weakness in our LiveCycle family of products which we attribute to longer LiveCycle sales cycles, as well as lower LiveCycle OEM partner revenue. We acquired Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and as such, there is no three months ended February 27, 2009 period with which to compare Omnitures revenue for three months ended March 5, 2010. Revenue from Platform decreased $5.7 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. This expected decrease was primarily due to lower revenue from our Mobile Client products. Revenue from Print and Publishing increased $0.2 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Percent Change Americas $ 408.4 $ 326.1 25 % Percentage of total revenue 48 % 41 % EMEA 275.4 277.5 (1 )% Percentage of total revenue 32 % 35 % Asia 174.9 182.8 (4 )% Percentage of total revenue 20 % 24 % Total revenue $ 858.7 $ 786.4 9 % Overall revenue for the three months ended March 5, 2010 increased when compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, primarily due to the addition of Omniture revenue based on our acquisition of Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Increased revenue in our Knowledge Worker business segment and strength with our creative hobbyist products and Connect Solutions also contributed to the year-over-year growth. This was offset by a decrease in our Creative Solutions tools due to no comparable launch occurring in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Revenue in the Americas increased $82.3 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, for the same reasons as noted above. Revenue in EMEA decreased $2.1 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, primarily due to the fact that we were in the midst of shipping new versions of our CS4 family of products in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and no comparable launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Revenue in Asia decreased $7.9 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, primarily due to the fact that we were in the midst of shipping new versions of our CS4 family of products in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and no comparable launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Included in the overall increase in revenue were impacts associated with foreign currency. Due to the strength of the Euro and British pound against the U.S. dollar, revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. dollars was favorably impacted by $18.1 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010 as compared to the same reporting period last year. Of that, $16.1 million was attributable to the Euro and $2.0 million was attributable to the British pound. Due to the strength of the Yen against the U.S. dollar, revenue in Asia measured in U.S. dollars was favorably impacted by $1.7 million during the three months ended March 5, 2010 as compared to the same reporting period last year. Our currency hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the adverse foreign currency impacts to revenue, currently through the use of purchased foreign currency options. Due to the favorable currency impacts described above, during the three months ended March 5, 2010 no hedge benefits were realized from this program. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Product Backlog The actual amount of product backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. Shippable backlog is comprised of unfulfilled orders, excluding those associated with new product releases, those pending credit review and those not shipped due to the application of our global inventory policy. Our shippable backlog for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was approximately 6% of first quarter fiscal 2010 revenue. Our shippable backlog for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 was approximately 9% of fourth quarter fiscal 2009 revenue. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Percent Change Product $ 23.6 $ 51.5 (54 )% Percentage of total revenue 3 % 7 % Subscription 45.7 7.5 509 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 1 % Services and support 20.1 18.4 9 % Percentage of total revenue 2 % 2 % Total cost of revenue $ 89.4 $ 77.4 16 % Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue decreased due to the following: Percent Change 2009 to 2010 QTD Amortization of purchased intangibles (21 )% Localization costs related to our product launches (16 ) Excess and obsolete inventory (11 ) Royalty cost (6 ) Various individually insignificant items Total change (54 )% Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, primarily due to amortization of approximately $11.6 million associated with the intangible assets purchased through our Macromedia acquisition which were fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease in localization costs was primarily due to CS4 products becoming fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease in excess and obsolete inventory was primarily related to certain localized languages of our CS3 products, which became obsolete and were disposed of during the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and did not recur in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In addition, the decrease was due to lower excess inventory levels. Royalty costs related to obligations to certain key vendors that were incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and did not recur in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third-parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third-parties for rack space, power and similar items. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009 as a result of our acquisition of Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the addition of its related data center costs. Also included in cost of subscription revenue for the three months ended March 5, 2010 is $15.2 million of amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in conjunction with this acquisition. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009, primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount as a result of our acquisition of Omniture. Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses The increase in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 5, 2010 was primarily driven by increases in compensation expense due to additional headcount as a result of our acquisition of Omniture in addition to higher employee compensation including bonuses based on company performance to date as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. Research and Development 2010 2009 Percent Change Expenses $ 174.3 $ 149.9 16 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 19 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased due to the following: Percent Change 2009 to 2010 QTD Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 9 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 5 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 16 % We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our desktop application and server-based software products. Sales and Marketing 2010 2009 Percent Change Expenses $ 297.3 $ 249.5 19 % Percentage of total revenue 35 % 32 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: Percent Change 2009 to 2010 QTD Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 12 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 9 Marketing spending related to product launches and overall marketing efforts to further increase revenue (3 ) Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 19 % General and Administrative 2010 2009 Percent Change Expenses $ 91.0 $ 74.1 23 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 9 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: Percent Change 2009 to 2010 QTD Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 11 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 8 Provision for bad debts (3 ) Professional and consulting fees 3 Depreciation and amortization 2 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 23 % Restructuring Charges 2010 2009 Percent Change Expenses $ 11.6 $ 12.3 (6 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 2 % Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan On November 10, 2009, in order to appropriately align our costs in connection with our fiscal 2010 operating plan, we initiated a restructuring plan consisting of reductions of up to approximately 630 full-time positions worldwide and the consolidation of facilities. The restructuring activities related to this plan affected only those employees that were associated with Adobe prior to the acquisition of Omniture on October 23, 2009. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we continued to implement restructuring activities under this plan. We vacated approximately 8,000 square feet of sales facilities in Australia, Canada, Denmark and the U.S. We accrued $0.4 million for the fair value of our future contractual obligations under these operating leases and we expect to pay these facilities-related liabilities through fiscal 2011. Additionally, we recorded charges of $11.9 million for termination benefits for the elimination of approximately 159 of the remaining full-time positions expected to be terminated worldwide. The remaining accrual associated with these ongoing termination benefits is expected to be paid during fiscal 2010. We also recorded favorable adjustments of $1.1 million to reflect reductions in previously recorded estimates of $0.7 million and fluctuati ons related to foreign currency translation of $0.4 million. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we initiated a restructuring program, consisting of reductions in workforce of approximately 560 full-time positions globally and the consolidation of facilities, in order to reduce our operating costs and focus our resources on key strategic priorities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we continued to implement restructuring activities under this program. We vacated approximately 89,000 square feet of research and development and sales facilities in the U.S., the United Kingdom and Canada. We accrued $8.5 million for the fair value of our future contractual obligations under these operating leases using our credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate, estimated at approximately 6% as of the date we ceased to use the leased properties. This amount is net of the fair value of future estimated sublease income of approximately $4.4 million. We also recorded additional charges of $3.4 million for termination benefits for the elimination of substantially all of the remaining 100 full-time positions expected to be terminated. We expect to pay facilities-related liabilities through fiscal 2013 and the remaining liabilities associated with termination benefits in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 11 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our restructuring plans. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles 2010 2009 Percent Change Expenses $ 18.2 $ 15.4 18 % Percentage of total revenue 2 % 2 % Amortization expense increased during the three months ended March 5, 2010, as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009 as a result of intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 offset by a decrease in amortization associated with the intangible assets purchased through our Macromedia acquisition which were fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2009. Non-Operating Income (Expense) for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Percent Change Interest and other income, net $ 0.6 $ 13.3 (95 )% Percentage of total revenue * 2 % Interest expense (7.7 ) (0.8 ) 863 % Percentage of total revenue (1 )% * Investment gains (losses), net (3.5 ) (17.3 ) (80 )% Percentage of total revenue * (2 )% Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (10.6 ) $ (4.8 ) (121 )% _________________________________________ * Percentage is not meaningful. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income, net also includes foreign exchange gains and losses, including those from hedging revenue transactions primarily denominated in Japanese Yen and Euro currencies. Interest and other income, net, decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2010 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009 due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by an increase in average investment balances, as well as increased foreign currency losses. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Interest Expense In February 2010, we issued $600.0 million of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2015 (the 2015 Notes) and $900.0 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes and, together with the 2015 Notes, the Notes). As of November 27, 2009, we had an outstanding credit facility of $1.0 billion, which we repaid on February 1, 2010 with a portion of the proceeds from our Notes. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to interest associated with higher borrowings resulting from the issuance of the Notes as well as an increase in our average borrowing rate due to the Notes. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net, consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities, unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities), and gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. Our net investment losses for the three months ended March 5, 2010 decreased primarily due to other-than-temporary impairment charges on certain of our direct investments during the three months ended February 27, 2009 that did not recur during the three months ended March 5, 2010. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Percent Change Provision $ 39.1 $ 46.7 (16 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % Effective tax rate 23.5 % 23.0 % Our effective tax rate increased approximately one percentage point during the three months ended March 5, 2010 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2009. The increase was primarily related to the expiration of the U.S. research and development credit on December 31, 2009. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 5, 2010 was $217.5 million, exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 5, 2010 were recognized in the future, $200.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $17.3 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future tax returns. As of March 5, 2010, the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was approximately $16.2 million. This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits equal to $0 to approximately $13 million. These amounts would decrease income tax expense as a result of our adoption of new accounting standards related to business combinations in fiscal 2010 . Repatriation of Undistributed Foreign Earnings In December 2009, we repatriated $700 million of undistributed foreign earnings for which a deferred tax liability had been previously accrued. As such, a long-term deferred tax liability of approximately $200 million was reclassified to current income taxes payable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective Fair Value Measurements In January 2010, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements and provides clarification for existing disclosures requirements. More specifically, this update will require (a) an entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS and to describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements to be presented separately (i.e. present the activity on a gross basis rather than net) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). This guidance clarifies existing disclosure requirements for the level of disaggregation used for classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value and requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs. The new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosure requirements related to the purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the rollforward activity of Level 3 fair value measurements. Those disclosure requirements are effective for fiscal years ending after December 31, 2010. We will adopt the new disclosures in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and the Level 3 requirements in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. We do not believe the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash flows. (in millions) March 5, 2010 November 27, 2009 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 2,672.4 $ 1,904.5 Working capital $ 2,276.4 $ 1,629.1 Stockholders equity $ 5,171.4 $ 4,890.6 A summary of our cash flows is as follows (in millions): March 5, 2010 February 27, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 259.8 $ 365.7 Net cash used for investing activities (208.7 ) (131.5 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 540.2 28.7 Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (1.3 ) (0.4 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 590.0 $ 262.5 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses; general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent; and cost of product revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from the exercise of employee options and participation in the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). Another use of cash is our stock repurchase program, which is described below. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $259.8 million for the three months ended March 5, 2010, was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with decreases in trade receivables and increases in income taxes payable and deferred revenue. Trade receivables decreased primarily from revenue that was shipped in the second half of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and collected during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Income taxes payable increased primarily due to reclassifications in tax liabilities associated largely with the repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings. Increases in deferred revenue related primarily to net activity from our acquisition of Omniture and the related renewal of calendar-year based contracts in additi on to our free of charge upgrades for our CS5 product launch in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, as well as increases in maintenance and support orders. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued expenses, accrued restructuring and trade payables. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to the adoption of a new vacation policy which eliminated the vacation accrual for exempt employees in the U.S. beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accrued restructuring decreased primarily due to payments related to the 2009 and Omniture restructuring plans that were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, offset in part by new charges. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $208.7 million for the three months ended March 5, 2010, was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments, offset in part by maturities and sales of short-term investments. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 5, 2010 represented purchases of property and equipment and long-term investments and other assets, offset in part by a decrease in our restricted cash balance (in Other on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows) and proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In February 2010, we issued $600.0 million of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2015 and $900.0 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020. Our proceeds were approximately $1.494 billion which is net of an issuance discount of $6.561 million. The Notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. In addition, we incurred issuance costs of approximately $10.7 million. Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the Notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1, commencing on August 1, 2010. The proceeds from this offering are available for general corporate purposes. As of March 5, 2010, the amount outstanding under the Notes was $1.494 billion, which is included in long-term liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 16 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. On February 1, 2010, we used $1.0 billion of the proceeds from the Notes offering to pay the outstanding balance on our credit facility, and as of March 5, 2010, this facility has no outstanding balance. We are in compliance with all of our covenants under our credit facility and the entire $1.0 billion credit line under this facility remains available for borrowing. Net cash from financing activities of $540.2 million for the three months ended March 5, 2010, was primarily due to proceeds from our Notes and treasury stock issuances, offset in part by payment of the outstanding balance on our credit facility. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Restructuring During the past several years, we have initiated the following four restructuring plans, two of which were the result of large acquisitions: Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan Omniture Restructuring Plan Macromedia Restructuring Plan At March 5, 2010, we have accrued total restructuring charges of approximately $25.9 million of which approximately $13.4 million relates to ongoing termination benefits and contract terminations and are expected to be paid during fiscal 2010. The remaining $12.5 million relates to the cost of closing redundant facilities and are expected to be paid through fiscal 2013. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we made payments related to the above restructuring plans totaling approximately $30.3 million which consisted of approximately $28.5 million related to termination benefits and contract terminations and approximately $1.8 million related to the cost of closing redundant facilities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the cash outlays for the restructuring actions described above. See Note 11 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our restructuring plans. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during the remainder of fiscal 2010 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to the Omniture acquisition. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. At March 5, 2010, the amount outstanding under the Notes was $1.494 billion. On February 1, 2010, we used $1.0 billion of the proceeds from this offering to pay the outstanding balance on our credit facility. The remainder of the proceeds from this offering are available for general corporate purposes. There is no outstanding balance under our credit facility and the entire $1.0 billion credit line under this facility remains available for borrowing. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 49% of our consolidated invested balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Within the U.S., the portfolio is invested primarily in money market funds for working capital purposes. Outside of the U.S., our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in U.S. Treasury securities. Stock Repurchase Program We did not enter into any new structured repurchase agreements during the three months ended March 5, 2010 and February 27, 2009. We have previously entered into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval, and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 5, 2010, we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares at an average price per share of $36.21 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2009. During the three months ended February 27, 2009, we repurchased approximately 5.0 million shares at an average price of $22.79 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2008. Subsequent to March 5, 2010, as part of our stock repurchase program, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $250.0 million. This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Notes 12 and 19 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our stock repurchase program. Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 5, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 27, 2009. Our principal commitments as of March 5, 2010 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. Except as discussed below, there have been no significant changes in those obligations during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Notes 15 and 16 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. Notes In February 2010, we issued $600.0 million of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2015 and $900.0 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020. As of November 27, 2009, we had an outstanding credit facility of $1.0 billion which we repaid on February 1, 2010 using the proceeds from the Notes. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Interest on the Notes are payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1, commencing on August 1, 2010. At March 5, 2010, our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $525.0 million. See Note 16 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. Financial Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a certain maximum leverage ratio. Our leases for the East and West Towers and the Almaden Tower are both subject to standard covenants including certain financial ratios as defined in the lease agreements that are reported to the lessors quarterly. As of March 5, 2010, we were in compliance with all of our covenants. Our Notes do not contain any financial covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Guarantees The lease agreements for our corporate headquarters provide for residual value guarantees. The fair value of a residual value guarantee in lease agreements entered into after December 31, 2002, must be recognized as a liability on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. As such, we recognized $5.2 million and $3.0 million in liabilities, related to the extended East and West Towers and Almaden Tower leases, respectively. These liabilities are recorded in other long-term liabilities with the offsetting entry recorded as prepaid rent in other assets. The balance will be amortized to our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income over the life of the leases. As of March 5, 2010 and November 27, 2009, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the residua l value guarantees, for both leases, remaining in other long-term liabilities and prepaid rent was $1.2 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. As part of our limited partnership interest in Adobe Ventures, we have provided a general indemnification to Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures, for certain events or occurrences while Granite Ventures is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity provided that Granite Ventures acts in good faith on behalf of the partnership. We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments that could potentially result from any hypothetical future claim, but believe the risk of having to make any payments under this general indemnification to be remote.