ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth and market opportunities, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2012. When used in this report, the words expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of software and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We also distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators, independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. We offer some of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model (also known as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. Our software runs on personal computers (PCs) and server-based computers, as well as on mobile, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2013 , we reported solid financial results consistent with the continued execution of our plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Marketing, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. In May 2012, we launched Adobe Creative Suite 6 (CS6) which is at the center of Adobe Creative Cloud, our new subscription-based model for creating and publishing content and applications that was also released in May 2012. The launch of CS6 included major updates to all of our core Creative Suite (CS) point products as well as four suite versions. Late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we launched Creative Cloud for teams, a platform for teams and workgroups to access all applications and online services in the Creative Cloud. Over time, we expect Creative Cloud to transform our business model and drive higher revenue growth through an expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users through a lower cost of entry, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. This model will drive our revenue to be more recurring and predictable since revenue is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate the adoption of our Creative Cloud subscription model, causing our traditional perpetual license revenue to decline. We currently plan to continue to offer the perpetual licensing model as we transition our customers to this new subscription-based model. Adoption of our Creative Cloud subscription offering continued to accelerate in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, which has and will continue to cause our traditional perpetual license revenue and, in turn, total net revenue in fiscal 2013, to decline. As anticipated during this transition, expenses did not and are not expected to decline in correlation to the decrease in revenue, which will adversely affect our net income and operating margin throughout fiscal 2013. However, over time we expect this business model transition will significantly increase our long-term revenue growth rate by attracting new users, keeping our end user base 28 Table of Contents current and thereby driving higher average revenue per user. Additionally, our shift to a subscription model will increase the amount of recurring revenue that is ratably reported, driven by broader Creative Cloud adoption over the next several years. To assist with the understanding of this transition and the related shift in revenue described above, we are using certain performance metrics to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. These metrics include the total number of current paid subscriptions and Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR). We define ARR as the sum of: the number of current paid subscriptions, multiplied by the average subscription price paid per user per month, multiplied by twelve months; plus, twelve months of contract value of Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs) where the revenue is ratably recognized over the life of the contract. In addition, we expect renewal rates associated with Creative Cloud, and potentially other subscription offerings, will become key metrics used to measure their performance. Because the majority of Creative Cloud subscriptions have been annual and the Creative Cloud launched in May 2012, we have not yet reached the first anniversary of these annual subscriptions and, therefore, we anticipate that meaningful data regarding subscription renewal rates will first become available later in fiscal year 2013. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. With the exception of the discussion below, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 1, 2013 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2012 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2011, the FASB amended the accounting standards to increase the prominence of other comprehensive income (OCI) by eliminating the option to present components of OCI as part of the statement of changes in shareholders equity and requires the components of OCI to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two consecutive statements. We adopted the amended accounting standards at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2013 by electing to present separate consolidated statements of comprehensive income from the consolidated statements of income. The amended accounting standards only impact the financial statement presentation of OCI and do not change the components that are recognized in net income or OCI. The adoption had no impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective There have been no new accounting pronouncements not yet effective that have significance, or potential significance, to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2013 We continue to derive the majority of our revenue from perpetual licenses. However, during the three months ended March 1, 2013, our subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue increased to 22% from 14% in the year ago period, as we transition more of our business to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media ARR of $297.0 million as of March 1, 2013 increased by $94.0 million , or 46% from November 30, 2012, primarily due to increases in the number of paid Creative Cloud individual and team subscribers. Our total deferred revenue of $700.0 million as of March 1, 2013 increased by $80.5 million , or 13% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 primarily due to increases in enterprise term licenses agreements and renewals for our Adobe Marketing Cloud services. Cost of revenue and operating expenses of $909.6 million increased by $153.4 million , or 20% , year-over-year during the three months ended March 1, 2013 from $756.2 million . The increase is primarily due to increases in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount and to a lesser extent, a one-time charge associated with technology licensing arrangements. Net income of $65.1 million decreased by $120.1 million , or 65% , year-over-year during the three months ended March 1, 2013 from $185.2 million primarily due to the reasons stated above and offset in part by the effects of the extension of the federal research and development credit. Net cash flow from operations of $322.0 million during the three months ended March 1, 2013 remained relatively stable compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Product $ 675.8 $ 808.5 (16 )% Percentage of total revenue 67 % 77 % Subscription 224.3 146.2 53 % Percentage of total revenue 22 % 14 % Services and support 107.8 90.5 19 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 9 % Total revenue $ 1,007.9 $ 1,045.2 (4 )% Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings including certain of our Adobe Marketing Cloud services and Creative Cloud. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. We expect our subscription revenue will continue to increase as a result of our investments in new SaaS and subscription models. We also expect this to increase the amount of recurring revenue we generate as a percent of our total revenue. Of the $224.3 million and $146.2 million in subscription revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 , respectively, approximately $154.9 million and $129.1 million , respectively, is from our Digital Marketing segment, with the remaining amounts representing our Digital Media segment offerings. Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted Adobe Marketing Cloud services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. As described in Note 15 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , we have the following segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. 30 Table of Contents Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we moved our video server solutions products from our Digital Media segment to our Digital Marketing segment to better align the role of how Adobe can help its customers monetize their video assets with our Digital Marketing solutions. Prior year information has been updated to reflect this change. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Digital Media $ 688.4 $ 724.4 (5 )% Percentage of total revenue 68 % 70 % Digital Marketing 267.7 265.8 1 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 25 % Print and Publishing 51.8 55.0 (6 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Total revenue $ 1,007.9 $ 1,045.2 (4 )% Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media decreased $36.0 million during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 , primarily due to continued strong adoption of Creative Cloud and ETLAs as we continue to transition more of our business to a subscription-based model. Revenue related to our creative professional products, which include our Creative Suite editions and CS point products as well as the recently released Creative Cloud, decreased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to continued customer adoption of Creative Cloud subscription offerings, released in May 2012. We anticipate accelerated adoption of Creative Cloud, for which revenue is recognized over time, and that this adoption will cause our traditional perpetual license revenue to decline. Revenue associated with our other creative products increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increases associated with distribution of third-party software via Flash Player downloads and our Digital Publishing Suite, as well as continued demand related to the May 2012 release of Adobe Lightroom 4. These increases were offset in part by decreases associated with lower than expected demand for our Photoshop Elements family of products. For our creative offerings, the total number of perpetual units licensed decreased while the number of subscription units licensed increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012. Unit average selling prices, excluding subscriptions, remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Document Services revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family, also increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increased Document Exchange Services revenue including revenue generated from our EchoSign eSignatures service offset in part by the shift to ETLAs. Within Document Services, excluding large enterprise license agreement deals, the number of units decreased while the unit average selling prices increased for the three months ended March 1, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Digital Marketing Revenue from Digital Marketing increased slightly during the three months ended March 1, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to continued revenue growth associated with our Adobe Marketing Cloud, which increased 20% year-over-year. As expected, increases were offset by a decrease in revenue associated with Adobe LiveCycle product offerings as we continue to maintain our focus on Adobe Marketing Cloud. 31 Table of Contents Print and Publishing Revenue from Print and Publishing decreased $3.2 million during the three ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 , primarily due to decreases in fees received for consulting services and royalties related to PostScript products. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Americas $ 500.3 $ 503.1 (1 )% Percentage of total revenue 50 % 48 % EMEA 297.5 330.7 (10 )% Percentage of total revenue 30 % 32 % APAC 210.1 211.4 (1 )% Percentage of total revenue 20 % 20 % Total revenue $ 1,007.9 $ 1,045.2 (4 )% Overall revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 remained relatively stable in the Americas and APAC and declined in EMEA. Revenue in the Americas remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to increases in Digital Marketing revenue, offset in part by declines in Digital Media and Print and Publishing revenue. The economic conditions in Europe and the weakening of the Euro and the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar caused revenue in EMEA to decline during the three months ended March 1, 2013 compared with the comparable period a year earlier. Revenue in EMEA decreased across all reportable segments during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Revenue in APAC remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to declines in Digital Media, offset by increases in Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. Within each geographical region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Included in the overall decrease in revenue for the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below. (in millions) 2013 Revenue impact: Increase/(Decrease) EMEA: Euro $ (0.4 ) British Pound (0.4 ) Other currencies 0.1 Total EMEA (0.7 ) Japanese Yen (11.6 ) Other currencies (0.4 ) Total revenue impact (12.7 ) Hedging impact: Japanese Yen 7.1 Total hedging impact 7.1 Total impact $ (5.6 ) During the three months ended March 1, 2013 , the U.S. Dollar strengthened against all major currencies causing revenue in EMEA and Japan measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents to decrease compared with the same reporting period last year. Our Yen currency hedging programs resulted in hedging gains during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as noted in the table above. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Product $ 52.0 $ 25.7 102 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 2 % Subscription 62.6 48.8 28 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 5 % Services and support 42.1 33.8 25 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 3 % Total cost of revenue $ 156.7 $ 108.3 45 % Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to the following: % Change 2013-2012 QTD Amortization of purchased intangibles and technology license arrangements 106 % Cost of sales (11 ) Royalty cost 9 Localization costs related to our product launches 5 Excess and obsolete inventory (4 ) Various individually insignificant items (3 ) Total change 102 % Amortization of purchase intangibles and technology license arrangements increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 as we entered into certain technology licensing arrangements totaling $51.8 million during the three months ended March 1, 2013 . Of this cost, an estimated $25.3 million was related to future licensing rights and has been capitalized and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives ranging from five to ten years. We estimated that the remaining cost of approximately $26.5 million was related to historical use of licensing rights and was expensed as cost of product revenue. In connection with certain of these licensing arrangements, we have the ability to acquire additional rights to use technology in the future. Cost of sales decreased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to decreases in the number of perpetual units sold and packaging costs associated with our CS6 products. Royalty costs increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increases in obligations to certain key vendors and royalty costs associated with the launch of CS6 and Creative Cloud in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Localization costs increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to released updates for CS6 during the quarter and the product launch of Acrobat XI in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Excess and obsolete inventory decreased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to decreased reserve requirements for CS6. 33 Table of Contents Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to the following: % Change 2013-2012 QTD Hosted server costs 19 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 9 % Total change 28 % Hosted server costs increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount from our acquisitions of Efficient Frontier in the later part of the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and Behance in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, depreciation expense from higher capital expenditures after the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and data center costs related to higher transaction volumes in our Adobe Marketing Cloud and Creative Cloud services. Amortization of purchase intangibles increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increased amortization of intangible assets from our acquisitions of Efficient Frontier in the later part of the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and Behance in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits and third-party fees. Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Research and development $ 209.6 $ 177.7 18 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 17 % Sales and marketing 398.0 359.0 11 % Percentage of total revenue 39 % 34 % General and administrative 132.9 102.7 29 % Percentage of total revenue 13 % 10 % Restructuring charges (2.8 ) ** Percentage of total revenue * * Amortization of purchased intangibles 12.5 11.4 10 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 753.0 $ 648.0 16 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. 34 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to the following: % Change 2013-2012 QTD Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 10 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 4 Seminars 3 Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 18 % The increase in seminars during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 was primarily due to a technical event for our engineers which was held during the first quarter of fiscal 2013 that did not occur during fiscal 2012. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our applications, tools and service offerings. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to the following: % Change 2013-2012 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 7 % Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 5 Professional and consulting fees (3 ) Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 11 % The decrease in professional and consulting fees during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 is primarily due to lower vendor support expenses and hosting fees for Adobe.com and decreased professional fees associated with our fiscal 2012 initiative to enable new process improvements and efficiencies. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. 35 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 due to the following: % Change 2013-2012 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 6 % Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 5 Charitable contributions 12 Professional and consulting fees 2 Depreciation and amortization 2 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 29 % The increase in charitable contributions during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 reflects a planned contribution to the Adobe Foundation during the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Restructuring Charges During the past several years, we have initiated various restructuring plans. In connection with our Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan and Other Restructuring Plans, we recorded charges during the three months ended March 1, 2013 associated with closing redundant facilities. These charges were largely offset by net favorable employee termination and facility related adjustments for changes in previous estimates during the three months ended March 1, 2013 . During the three months ended March 2, 2012 we recorded net favorable employee termination and facility related adjustments of $2.8 million during three months ended March 2, 2012 . Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Amortization expense increased 10% during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . The increase was primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Behance in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as well as our acquisition of Efficient Frontier in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 1.3 $ (2.8 ) (146 )% Percentage of total revenue * * Interest expense (16.8 ) (16.8 ) % Percentage of total revenue (2 )% (2 )% Investment gains (losses), net 0.8 1.0 (20 )% Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (14.7 ) $ (18.6 ) (21 )% _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net changed from net expense for the three months ended March 2, 2012 to net income for the three months ended March 1, 2013 primarily due to decreased foreign currency losses and increased realized gains on fixed income investments. 36 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest associated with our senior notes (the "Notes"). Interest expense remained stable during the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities and unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities) and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Our net investment gains for the three months ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 were primarily due to realized and unrealized gains on our deferred compensation plan assets. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2013 2012 % Change Provision $ 18.4 $ 85.2 (78 )% Percentage of total revenue 2 % 8 % Effective tax rate 22.0 % 31.5 % Our effective tax rate decreased by approximately ten percentage points for the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 2, 2012 . The decrease was primarily due to the reinstatement of the federal research and development tax credit and to a lesser extent, due to lower year-over-year tax costs associated with licensing intellectual property to Adobe's trading companies. The reinstatement of the credit was retroactive to January 1, 2012. A $12.9 million tax benefit for the credit relating to fiscal 2012 was reflected in its entirety in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The decrease was partially offset by tax benefits recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as a result of the completion of certain income tax examinations. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the U.S., we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. Currently, there are a significant amount of foreign earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 1, 2013 was $165.5 million , exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 1, 2013 were recognized in the future, $152.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $13.2 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. As of March 1, 2013 , the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was approximately $13.3 million . This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $5 million . 37 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of (in millions) March 1, 2013 November 30, 2012 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,306.4 $ 1,425.1 Short-term investments $ 2,354.3 $ 2,113.3 Working capital $ 3,108.8 $ 3,059.6 Stockholders equity $ 6,805.3 $ 6,665.2 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 1, 2013 March 2, 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 322.0 $ 314.4 Net cash used for investing activities (446.1 ) (437.7 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 11.4 (68.5 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (6.0 ) 3.6 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (118.7 ) $ (188.2 ) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of product revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and participation in the employee stock purchase plan. Other uses of cash include our stock repurchase program, which is described below, business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $322.0 million for the three months ended March 1, 2013 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with decreases in trade receivables and increases in deferred revenue and trade payables. Trade receivables declined primarily due to lower overall revenue levels as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to annual billing for Digital Marketing hosted services, the majority of which were invoiced in January of fiscal 2013, coupled with a net increase in software subscription activity for our Creative Cloud offering. Trade payables increased primarily due to the timing of invoice receipts and cash payments associated with capital expenditures. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued expenses, taxes payable and increases in prepaid expenses and other assets. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to payment of fiscal 2012 bonuses, commissions and other incentive plans occurring primarily in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. During the three months ended March 1, 2013 , we also made our semi-annual interest payment associated with our Notes totaling $31.1 million . The resulting reduction in accrued interest was partially offset by additional interest accruals made during the period. The decrease in taxes payable is largely attributed to tax payments made during the first quarter of fiscal 2013, offset in part by current quarter tax expense and other adjustments. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased primarily due to payments of annual maintenance and support services associated with our licensed technologies, which were billed on a calendar-year basis and paid in January of fiscal 2013. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $446.1 million for the three months ended March 1, 2013 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 1, 2013 represented our acquisition of Behance, purchases of property and equipment primarily associated with our construction projects in Oregon and India and purchases of long-term technology licenses. These cash outflows were offset in part by sales and maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $11.4 million for the three months ended March 1, 2013 was primarily due to proceeds from our treasury stock issuances and cash received from our sales-leaseback transaction, offset in part by treasury stock repurchases. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. 38 Table of Contents We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Restructuring During the past several years, we have initiated various restructuring plans. Currently, we have two active restructuring plans that were of significance to us: Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan As of March 1, 2013 , we have accrued total restructuring charges of approximately $16.8 million of which approximately $15.4 million relates to the cost of closing redundant facilities and are expected to be paid under contract through fiscal 2021 of which approximately 65% will be paid through 2015. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the cash outlays for the restructuring actions described above. See Note 9 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our restructuring plans. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2013 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Our intent is to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and the available balance under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. As of March 1, 2013 , the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.5 billion . On March 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries. On March 1, 2013, we exercised an option under the Credit Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement by one year to March 2, 2018. As of March 1, 2013 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1.0 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 69% of our consolidated invested balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2013 . The fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in corporate bonds and commercial paper, foreign government securities, money market mutual funds, municipal securities, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities. Stock Repurchase Program We currently have authority granted by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to $2.0 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2015. This stock repurchase program is similar to our previous $1.6 billion stock repurchase program which we exhausted during the second quarter of fiscal 2012. During the three months ended March 1, 2013 and March 2, 2012 , we entered into structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments of $100.0 million and $80.0 million , respectively. The $100.0 million prepayments during the first quarter of fiscal 2013 were under the new $2.0 billion stock repurchase authority while the $80.0 million of prepayments during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 were under the previous $1.6 billion authority. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit 39 Table of Contents commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 1, 2013 , we repurchased approximately 2.7 million shares at an average price of $37.32 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2012 and the three months ended March 1, 2013 . During the three months ended March 2, 2012 , we repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares at an average price of $30.07 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 1, 2013 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2012 . Our principal commitments as of March 1, 2013 consist of obligations under operating leases, capital leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. Except as discussed below, there have been no significant changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 1, 2013 . See Notes 12 and 13 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. Senior Notes Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 1, 2013 , our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $338.3 million for the remaining duration of our senior notes. Capital Lease Obligation In January 2013, we entered into a sale-leaseback agreement to sell equipment totaling $25.7 million and leaseback the same equipment over a period of 24 months . This transaction was classified as a capital lease obligation and was recorded at fair value. The following table updates our capital lease obligations as of March 1, 2013 to include our new sale-leaseback agreement (in millions): Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Capital lease obligations $ 36.7 $ 23.0 $ 13.7 $ $ Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. Our Almaden Tower lease includes certain financial ratios as defined in the lease agreements that are reported to the lessors quarterly. As of March 1, 2013 , we were in compliance with all of our covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our Notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement and lease agreements, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. 40 Table of Contents Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited, however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.