ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, strategic investments, industry positioning, customer acquisition and retention, the amount of annualized recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. The risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2023, should be carefully reviewed. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Adobe is a global technology company with a mission to change the world through personalized digital experiences. For over four decades, Adobes innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses, enterprises, institutions, and governments engage and interact across all types of media. Our products, services and solutions are used around the world to imagine, create, manage, deliver, measure, optimize and engage with content across surfaces and fuel digital experiences. We have a diverse user base that includes consumers, communicators, creative professionals, developers, students, small and medium businesses and enterprises. We are also empowering creators by putting the power of artificial intelligence (AI) in their hands, and doing so in ways we believe are responsible. Our products and services help unleash creativity, accelerate document productivity and power businesses in a digital world. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific (APAC). OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2024, we experienced strong demand across our Digital Media and Digital Experience offerings, driven by our innovative product roadmap. As we execute on our long-term growth initiatives, with focus on delivering product innovation and driving adoption and usage of our AI-powered solutions, we have continued to experience growth in software-based subscription revenue across our portfolio of offerings. Digital Media In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile applications (apps) and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich content and immersive 3D experiences. Creative Cloud includes Adobe Express, a web and mobile app designed to enable a broad spectrum of users, including novice content creators, communicators and creative professionals, to create, edit and customize content quickly and easily with content-first, task-based solutions. In September 2023, we released Adobe Firefly, a group of creative generative AI models designed to generate high quality images and text effects. Adobe Firefly-powered generative AI features are also available across Creative Cloud apps including Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Express. Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users devices, machine learning and artificial intelligence, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by attracting new users with new features and products like Adobe Express and Adobe Firefly that make creative tools accessible to first-time creators and communicators, and delivering new features and technologies to existing customers with our latest releases such as share for review and generative AI capabilities. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to 24 Table of Contents increase our revenue with existing users, continue to attract new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that are designed to accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new and enhanced desktop, web and mobile apps, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to experience and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, with a set of integrated mobile apps and cloud-based document services which enable users to create, collaborate, review, approve, sign and track documents regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Acrobat Sign and Adobe Scan. Adobe Acrobat is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses, and is also included in our Creative Cloud All Apps subscription offering. As part of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud strategies, we utilize a data-driven operating model (DDOM) and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to raise awareness of our products, drive new customer acquisition, engagement and retention, and optimize customer journeys, which continue to contribute strong product-led growth in the business. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and remaining performance obligations as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any exchange rate changes. Our reported ARR results in the current fiscal year are based on currency rates set at the beginning of the year and held constant throughout the year for measurement purposes. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was $12.78 billion, up from $12.49 billion at the end of fiscal 2023. Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was $2.98 billion, up from $2.84 billion at the end of fiscal 2023. Total Digital Media ARR grew to $15.76 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2024, up from $15.33 billion at the end of fiscal 2023. Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was $3.07 billion, up from $2.76 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, representing 11% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was $750 million, up from $634 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, representing 18% year-over-year growth. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $3.82 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, up from $3.40 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, representing 12% year-over-year growth driven by strong net new user growth. Digital Experience We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. The Adobe Experience Cloud apps and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable personalized experiences at scale and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. Our differentiation and competitive advantage are strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to integrate our comprehensive set of solutions. 25 Table of Contents Adobe Experience Cloud delivers solutions for our customers across the following strategic growth pillars: Data insights and audiences. Our products, including Adobe Analytics, Customer Journey Analytics, Adobe Product Analytics, and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, deliver actionable data in real time to provide highly tailored and adaptive experiences across platforms. Content and commerce. Our products help customers manage, deliver, monetize, and optimize content delivery through Adobe Experience Manager and build multi-channel commerce experiences for B2B and B2C customers on a single platform with Adobe Commerce. Customer journeys. Our products help businesses manage, test, target and personalize customer journeys delivered as campaigns across B2B and B2C use cases, including through Adobe Marketo Engage, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Journey Optimizer. Marketing planning and workflow. Our products help businesses intelligently measure, optimize, and plan marketing investments through the Adobe Mix Modeler, and allow businesses to strategically plan, manage, collaborate, and execute on workflows for marketing campaigns and other projects at speed and scale with our enterprise work management app, Adobe Workfront. In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Digital Experience solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers, marketing executives and information management and technology executives. These customers often are involved in workflows that integrate other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience business, such as with our new Adobe GenStudio solution, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Digital Experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments and our experience-led growth strategy. Digital Experience revenue was $1.29 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, up from $1.18 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, representing 10% year-over-year growth. Driving this growth was the increase in subscription revenue, which grew to $1.16 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 from $1.04 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, representing 12% year-over-year growth. Macroeconomic Conditions As a corporation with an extensive global footprint, we are subject to risks and exposures from the evolving macroeconomic environment, including the effects of increased global inflationary pressures and interest rates, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions and geopolitical pressures, including the unknown impacts of current and future trade regulations. We continuously monitor the direct and indirect impacts of these circumstances on our business and financial results. While our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the broader implications of these macroeconomic events on our business, results of operations and overall financial position, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain. See Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of these macroeconomic issues on our business. 26 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates on a regular basis. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, and consequently, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 1, 2024, as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 1, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Performance Summary Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $15.76 billion as of March 1, 2024 increased by $432 million, or 3%, from $15.33 billion as of December 1, 2023. Creative revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2024 of $3.07 billion increased by $305 million, or 11%, compared to the year-ago period. Document Cloud revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2024 of $750 million increased by $116 million, or 18%, compared to the year-ago period. Digital Experience revenue of $1.29 billion during the three months ended March 1, 2024 increased by $113 million, or 10%, compared to the year-ago period. Remaining performance obligations of $17.58 billion as of March 1, 2024 increased by $369 million, or 2%, from $17.22 billion as of December 1, 2023. Cost of revenue of $590 million during the three months ended March 1, 2024 increased by $22 million, or 4%, compared to the year-ago period. Operating expenses of $3.69 billion during the three months ended March 1, 2024 increased by $1.18 billion, or 47%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to the $1 billion termination fee which resulted from termination of the Figma transaction. Net income of $620 million during the three months ended March 1, 2024 decreased by $627 million, or 50%, compared to the year-ago period. Cash flows from operations of $1.17 billion during the three months ended March 1, 2024 decreased by $519 million, or 31%, compared to the year-ago period. 27 Table of Contents Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Subscription $ 4,916 $ 4,373 12 % Percentage of total revenue 95 % 94 % Product 119 120 (1) % Percentage of total revenue 2 % 3 % Services and other 147 162 (9) % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Total revenue $ 5,182 $ 4,655 11 % Subscription Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings, and related support, including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services. We primarily recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of service. Subscription revenue related to certain offerings, where fees are based on a number of transactions and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are recognized on a usage basis. We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 is as follows: (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Digital Media $ 3,725 $ 3,301 13 % Digital Experience 1,164 1,042 12 % Publishing and Advertising 27 30 (10) % Total subscription revenue $ 4,916 $ 4,373 12 % Product Our product revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to licenses for on-premise software purchased on a perpetual basis, for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our original equipment manufacturer and royalty agreements. We primarily recognize product revenue at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Services and Other Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support for certain on-premise licenses that are recognized at a point in time and our advertising offerings. We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials or fixed-fee basis. These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time-and-materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts. Training revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers, partners and developers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Transaction-based advertising revenue is recognized on a usage basis as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers. 28 Table of Contents Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Digital Media $ 3,816 $ 3,395 12 % Percentage of total revenue 74 % 73 % Digital Experience 1,289 1,176 10 % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 25 % Publishing and Advertising 77 84 (8) % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 2 % Total revenue $ 5,182 $ 4,655 11 % Digital Media Revenue by major offerings in our Digital Media reportable segment for the three months ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 were as follows: (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Creative Cloud $ 3,066 $ 2,761 11 % Document Cloud 750 634 18 % Total Digital Media revenue $ 3,816 $ 3,395 12 % Revenue from Digital Media increased $421 million during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative and Document Cloud subscription offerings due to continued demand amid an increasingly digital environment, strong engagement across customer segments and migrating our customers to higher valued subscription offerings with increased revenue per subscription. Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $113 million during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 primarily due to net new additions across our subscription offerings. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Americas $ 3,110 $ 2,779 12 % Percentage of total revenue 60 % 60 % EMEA 1,319 1,173 12 % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 25 % APAC 753 703 7 % Percentage of total revenue 15 % 15 % Total revenue $ 5,182 $ 4,655 11 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 1, 2024 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Included in the overall change in revenue for the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 were impacts associated with foreign currency and our foreign currency hedging program. During the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the year-ago period, the U.S. Dollar primarily weakened against EMEA foreign currencies and strengthened against APAC foreign currencies, which resulted in a net decrease in revenue of approximately $1 million in U.S. Dollar equivalents. For the three months ended March 1, 2024, we had net hedging losses from our cash flow hedging program of $4 million. 29 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Subscription $ 455 $ 434 5 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 9 % Product 5 8 (38) % Percentage of total revenue * * Services and other 130 126 3 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Total cost of revenue $ 590 $ 568 4 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party hosting services and data center costs, including expenses related to operating our network infrastructure. Cost of subscription revenue also includes compensation costs associated with network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, royalty fees, software costs and amortization of certain intangible assets. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 due to the following: Components of % Change Hosting services and data center costs 6 % Royalty costs 2 Amortization of intangibles (3) Total change 5 % Product Cost of product revenue is primarily comprised of third-party royalties, localization costs and costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Services and Other Cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of compensation and contracted costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support, and hosting services and data center costs. Cost of services and other revenue increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 primarily due to increases in compensation costs, partially offset by decreases in professional and consulting fees. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Research and development $ 939 $ 827 14 % Percentage of total revenue 18 % 18 % Sales and marketing 1,352 1,301 4 % Percentage of total revenue 26 % 28 % General and administrative 352 331 6 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 7 % Acquisition termination fee 1,000 ** Percentage of total revenue 19 % * Amortization of intangibles 42 42 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 3,685 $ 2,501 47 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation and contracted costs associated with software development, third-party hosting services and data center costs, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in development activities. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 due to the following: Components of % Change Base compensation and related benefits 4 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 3 Hosting services and data center costs 4 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 14 % Investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, apps and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation costs, amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 primarily due to increases in compensation costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and contracted costs, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. 31 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 primarily due to increases in compensation costs, partially offset by decreases in professional and consulting fees. Acquisition Termination Fee During the three months ended March 1, 2024, we incurred a $1 billion termination fee which resulted from termination of the Figma transaction. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Interest expense $ (27) $ (32) (16) % Percentage of total revenue (1) % (1) % Investment gains (losses), net 18 1 ** Percentage of total revenue * * Other income (expense), net 70 43 ** Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total non-operating income (expense), net $ 61 $ 12 ** _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest associated with our debt instruments. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Other income (expense), net also includes realized gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense), net increased during the three months ended March 1, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023 primarily due to increases in interest income driven by higher average interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2024 2023 % Change Provision for income taxes $ 348 $ 351 (1) % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 8 % Effective tax rate 36 % 22 % Our effective tax rate increased by approximately 14 percentage points for the three months ended March 1, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2023, primarily due to the Figma acquisition termination fee incurred during the three months ended March 1, 2024 which was not deductible for financial statement purposes. The increase was partially offset by a net tax benefit related to stock-based compensation recorded during the three months ended March 1, 2024, as compared to a net tax expense related to stock-based compensation recorded during the year-ago period. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 1, 2024 was higher than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the Figma acquisition termination fee which was not deductible for financial statement purposes and, to a 32 Table of Contents lesser extent, from state taxes partially offset by the net tax benefits from non-U.S. operations and the U.S. federal research tax credit. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe these assets are more likely than not to be realized based on evaluation of all available positive and negative evidence. On the basis of this evaluation, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount realizable. The total valuation allowance was $677 million as of March 1, 2024, primarily related to certain state credits and capital loss carryforwards. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple domestic and foreign tax jurisdictions. The current U.S. tax law subjects the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to U.S. tax and generally allows an exemption from taxation for distributions from foreign subsidiaries. In the current global tax policy environment, the domestic and foreign governing bodies continue to consider, and in some cases introduce, changes in regulations applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. As regulations are issued, we account for finalized regulations in the period of enactment. The provision from the U.S. Tax Act which requires us to capitalize and amortize research and development costs became effective in fiscal 2023. If the rule is not modified, there will continue to be an adverse impact on our effective rates for income taxes paid, which is partially offset by a benefit to our effective tax rates from the increase in the foreign-derived intangible income deduction. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $666 million and $330 million as of March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023, respectively. If the total unrecognized tax benefits as of March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023 were recognized, $502 million and $214 million would decrease the respective effective tax rates. As of March 1, 2024 and March 3, 2023, the combined amounts of accrued interest and penalties included in long-term income taxes payable related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were not material. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of our tax assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Although the timing of resolution, settlement and closing of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that the underlying unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $70 million over the next 12 months. Our future effective tax rates may be materially affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, or unexpected changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits. In addition, tax laws in the United States as well as other countries and jurisdictions in which we conduct business are subject to change as new laws are passed and/or new interpretations are made available. These countries, governmental bodies, such as the European Commission of the European Union, and intergovernmental economic organizations, such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have made or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined and, in some cases, have proposed or enacted new laws that are contrary to the way in which rules and regulations have historically been interpreted and applied. Changes in our operating landscape, such as changes in laws and/or interpretations of tax rules, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and/or cause us to respond by making changes to our business structure which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Moreover, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. Our policy is to record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. While we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. Our primary uses of cash are general business expenses including payroll and related benefits costs, income taxes, marketing and third-party hosting services, as well as our stock repurchase program as described below. Other customary sources of cash include proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments. Other customary uses of cash include business acquisitions, repayment of maturing senior notes, purchases of property and equipment and payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. This data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of (in millions) March 1, 2024 December 1, 2023 Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,254 $ 7,141 Short-term investments $ 566 $ 701 Working capital $ 471 $ 2,833 Stockholders equity $ 15,460 $ 16,518 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 1, 2024 March 3, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,174 $ 1,693 Net cash provided by investing activities 66 156 Net cash used for financing activities (2,128) (2,014) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (887) $ (164) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $1.17 billion for the three months ended March 1, 2024 was primarily comprised of net income adjusted for the net effect of non-cash items. During the three months ended March 1, 2024, the Figma termination fee of $1 billion was paid using cash on hand. This had an adverse impact on net income and, consequently, on our cash flows from operations. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $66 million for the three months ended March 1, 2024 was primarily due to maturities and sales of short-term investments partially offset by ongoing capital expenditures and investments of certain deferred compensation. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $2.13 billion for the three months ended March 1, 2024 was primarily due to payments for our common stock repurchases and taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. The above uses of cash were offset in part by proceeds from re-issuance of treasury stock related to our employee stock purchase plan. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program below. Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2024 due to changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, risks detailed in the section titled Risk Factors in titled Part II, Item 1A of this report. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital, operating resource expenditure and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. 34 Table of Contents Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of March 1, 2024 consisted of asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, money market funds, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, purchases of computer and server hardware to operate our network infrastructure, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff, and facilities expansion. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Revolving Credit Agreement We have a $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of lenders, providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries through June 30, 2027. Subject to the agreement of lenders, we may obtain up to an additional $500 million in commitments, for a maximum aggregate commitment of $2 billion. As of March 1, 2024, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement and the entire $1.5 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. Under the terms of our Revolving Credit Agreement, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or if one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Commercial Paper Program In September 2023, we established a commercial paper program under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $3 billion outstanding at any time, with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. The net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper are expected to be used for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, refinancing indebtedness or any other general corporate purposes. As of March 1, 2024, there were no outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program. Senior Notes We have $3.65 billion senior notes outstanding, which rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. As of March 1, 2024, the carrying value of our senior notes was $3.64 billion and our maximum commitment for interest payments was $276 million for the remaining duration of our outstanding senior notes. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. See Note 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our debt. During the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we reclassified the senior notes due February 1, 2025 as current debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of March 1, 2024, the carrying value of our current debt was $1.50 billion, net of the related discount and issuance costs. We intend to refinance the current portion of our debt on or before the due date. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of March 1, 2024 consisted of purchase obligations resulting from agreements to purchase goods and services in the ordinary course of business and obligations under operating lease arrangements. During the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we executed agreements associated with certain of our long-term supplier commitments that increased our minimum purchase obligations by $2.3 billion through December 2028. There have been no other material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 1, 2024. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase our shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In December 2020, our Board of Directors granted authority to repurchase up to $15 billion in our common stock through the end of fiscal 2024. During the three months ended March 1, 2024, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $2 billion and received an initial delivery of 2.5 million shares of our common stock. Subsequent to March 1, 2024, the ASR was settled which resulted in total repurchases of 3.5 million shares at an average price of $578.11. During the three months ended March 1, 2024, we repurchased a total of 3.1 million shares, including approximately 0.6 million shares at an average price of $626.68 through a structured repurchase agreement entered into during fiscal 2023, as well as 2.5 million shares from the initial delivery of the ASR. 35 Table of Contents Subsequent to March 1, 2024, our Board of Directors granted us additional authority to repurchase up to $25 billion in our common stock through March 14, 2028. Thereafter, as part of both the December 2020 and March 2024 stock repurchase authorities, we entered into an ASR with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $2.5 billion and received an initial delivery of 3.6 million shares, which represents approximately 75% of our prepayment. Upon completion of the $2.5 billion ASR, $22.65 billion remains under our March 2024 authority and there is no remaining balance under our December 2020 authority. See Note 11 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our stock repurchase program. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officers or directors lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that reduces our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.