ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition, the amount of recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2015. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators, independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2016 , we reported strong financial results consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Marketing, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. Our first quarter of fiscal 2016 financial results benefited from an extra week in the quarter due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2016 is a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2015 which was a 52-week year. In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Adobe Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering for creating and publishing content and applications. Creative Cloud delivers value through more frequent product updates, storage and access to user files stored in the cloud with syncing of files across users' machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities and lower entry point pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, teams and enterprises, and we enable larger enterprise customers to acquire Creative Cloud desktop apps through Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs). These Creative Cloud offerings address the multiple routes to market we use to license our creative software to targeted customers. Adoption of Creative Cloud has transformed our business model, and we continue to expect this to drive higher long-term revenue growth through an expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users through a lower cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value, as well as keeping existing 26 Table of Contents customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our new service called Adobe Stock. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and shift our revenue to be more recurring and predictable as revenue is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offering. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and ETLAs, perpetual revenue for older Creative products has continued to decline, and revenue from perpetual licensing of these products was immaterial for the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We are also a market leader with our Adobe Document Cloud offerings built around our Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services, including Adobe eSign. Adobe Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. In the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we delivered the next generation of this offering called Adobe Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices. Adobe Document Cloud includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe eSign, and a set of integrated services enables users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC, with a touch-enabled user interface, is licensed both through subscription and perpetual pricing. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently our key performance metric to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2016 and held constant throughout the year.We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Digital Publishing Suite Contract Value + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was $2.74 billion , up from $2.50 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 . Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter fiscal 2016 was $393.0 million , up from $385.0 million at the end of fiscal 2015 . Total Digital Media ARR grew to $3.13 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , up from $2.88 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 . Our success in driving growth in ARR has begun to positively affect our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was $732.9 million, up from $509.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and representing 44% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was $198.8 million , up from $193.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and representing 3% year-over-year growth. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $931.7 million in first quarter of fiscal 2016, up from $702.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and representing 33% year-over-year growth. We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Marketing segment. Our Digital Marketing business provides comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital 27 Table of Contents experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. We deliver these capabilities through our Adobe Marketing Cloud, an integrated offering enabling marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. With its broad set of solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager and Adobe Primetime, as well as real-time dashboards and a collaborative interface, customers of Adobe Marketing Cloud are able to combine data, insights and digital content to deliver a personalized, relevant experience to their constituents. In addition to chief marketing officers and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions include marketing professionals such as search engine marketers, media managers, media buyers and marketing research analysts. Customers also include web content editors, web analysts and web marketing managers. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings and our video workflow and delivery technologies. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct salesforce to market and license our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners including marketing agencies, systems integrators and developers that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , we achieved record Marketing Cloud revenue of $377.3 million , which represents 21% year-over-year revenue growth. In addition, we drove strong demand for our Marketing Cloud solutions, which we expect will positively benefit revenue growth in future quarters. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 4, 2016 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 27, 2015 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective On May 28, 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, requiring an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The updated standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of the new revenue standard for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 to December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted but not earlier than the original effective date. Accordingly, the updated standard is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We have not yet selected a transition method and we are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. On February 24, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with the exception of short-term leases. For lessees, leases will continue to be classified as either operating or finance leases in the income statement. Lessor accounting is similar to the current model but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model. Lessors will continue to classify leases as operating, direct financing or 28 Table of Contents sales-type leases. The effective date of the new standard for public companies is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and requires application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. The updated standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. With the exception of the new standards discussed above, there have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the three months ended March 4, 2016 , as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 27, 2015 , that are of significance or potential significance to us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Our results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 were impacted by an extra week due to our first quarter of fiscal 2016 having 14 weeks as compared to 13 weeks in the year-ago period. During the three months ended March 4, 2016 , our subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue increased to 77% compared to 64% in the year-ago period as we transitioned more of our business to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $3.13 billion as of March 4, 2016 increased by $249 million , or 9% , from $2.88 billion as of November 27, 2015 . The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to increases in the number of paid Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscriptions. Digital Media revenue of $931.7 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $ 228.9 million , or 33% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offering. Adobe Marketing Cloud revenue of $377.3 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $65.9 million , or 21% , compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to continued adoption of our Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) offering and increases in Adobe Campaign and Adobe Analytics revenue. Our total deferred revenue of $1.61 billion as of March 4, 2016 increased by $123.4 million , or 8% , from $1.49 billion as of November 27, 2015 primarily due to new contracts and existing renewals for our Adobe Marketing Cloud services and increases in Creative Cloud individual and team subscriptions. Cost of revenue of $198.6 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $31.8 million , or 19% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount and higher incentive compensation program achievement, and royalty costs including royalty payments related to our stock photography offering from the acquisition of Fotolia during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Also contributing to the overall increase in cost of revenue was the increase in costs associated with training and consulting services provided to our customers. Operating expenses of $877.0 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $107.6 million , or 14% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount and higher incentive compensation costs. Also contributing to the overall increase in operating expenses are higher corporate marketing expenses driven by increased marketing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Net income of $254.3 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $169.4 million , or 200% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to revenue increases. Net cash flow from operations of $497.5 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased by $314.5 million , or 172% , compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to higher net income, increases in deferred revenue and decreases in accounts receivable. 29 Table of Contents Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Subscription $ 1,070.2 $ 713.4 50 % Percentage of total revenue 77 % 64 % Product 201.1 290.8 (31 )% Percentage of total revenue 15 % 26 % Services and support 112.0 105.0 7 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 9 % Total revenue $ 1,383.3 $ 1,109.2 25 % Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Marketing Cloud and Document Cloud services. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. We expect our subscription revenue will continue to increase as a result of our investments in new SaaS and subscription models. As described in Note 14 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , we have the following segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 are as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Digital Media $ 781.9 $ 483.8 62 % Digital Marketing 280.9 224.9 25 % Print and Publishing 7.4 4.7 57 % Total subscription revenue $ 1,070.2 $ 713.4 50 % Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted Adobe Marketing Cloud services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Digital Media $ 931.7 $ 702.8 33 % Percentage of total revenue 68 % 63 % Digital Marketing 406.2 357.2 14 % Percentage of total revenue 29 % 32 % Print and Publishing 45.4 49.2 (8 )% Percentage of total revenue 3 % 4 % Total revenue $ 1,383.3 $ 1,109.2 25 % 30 Table of Contents Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $228.9 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily driven by increases in revenue associated with our creative offerings. Document Cloud revenue increased slightly during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 . Revenue associated with our creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud and perpetual creative offerings, increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings driven by the increase in number of paid Creative Cloud individual and team subscriptions. Also contributing to the increase in revenue associated with our creative offerings were increases in revenue associated with our Creative Cloud Photography Plan subscription offering and stock photography offering from the acquisition of Fotolia in the latter part of the first quarter of fiscal 2015. The increases associated with our creative products were slightly offset by expected declines in revenue associated with our other perpetual creative offerings and distribution of third-party software downloads. Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family, increased slightly during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the year ago period primarily due to increases in revenue associated with Adobe eSign and our Document Cloud subscription offering, partially offset by decreases in revenue associated with our Document Cloud perpetual license offerings. Digital Marketing Revenue from Digital Marketing increased $49.0 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to continued revenue growth associated with our Adobe Marketing Cloud, which increased 21% during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the year-ago period. Contributing to this increase were the continued adoption of our AEM offerings and increases in revenue associated with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Campaign. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Americas $ 806.5 $ 644.6 25 % Percentage of total revenue 58 % 58 % EMEA 385.6 307.1 26 % Percentage of total revenue 28 % 28 % APAC 191.2 157.5 21 % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 14 % Total revenue $ 1,383.3 $ 1,109.2 25 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 4, 2016 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to increases in Digital Media and Digital Marketing revenue, slightly offset by the decline in Print and Publishing revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. The overall increase in revenue was slightly offset by declines due to the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the year-ago period. 31 Table of Contents Foreign currency impacts to revenue for the three months ended March 4, 2016 are shown below. (in millions) 2016 Revenue impact: Increase/ (Decrease) EMEA: Euro $ (28.6 ) British Pound (5.0 ) Other currencies (1.4 ) Total EMEA (35.0 ) Japanese Yen (4.3 ) Other currencies (8.8 ) Total revenue impact (48.1 ) Hedging impact: Euro 1.2 British Pound 1.9 Japanese Yen 0.1 Total hedging impact 3.2 Total impact $ (44.9 ) During the three months ended March 4, 2016 , the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies caused revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents to decrease as compared to the year-ago period. These decreases were slightly offset by hedging gains from our Euro, British Pound and Japanese Yen hedging programs during the three months ended March 4, 2016 . Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Subscription $ 107.3 $ 95.5 13 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 9 % Product 20.3 19.7 3 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 2 % Services and support 71.0 51.6 38 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Total cost of revenue $ 198.6 $ 166.8 19 % Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party royalties and expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. 32 Table of Contents Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: % Change 2016-2015 QTD Data center costs 6 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Depreciation expense 2 Royalty cost 3 Amortization of purchased intangibles (1 ) Total change 13 % Data center costs increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to higher transaction volumes in our Adobe Marketing Cloud and Creative Cloud services. Royalty cost increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the year-ago period due to increased royalty payments related to our stock photography offering from the acquisition of Fotolia in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Depreciation expense increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the year-ago periods primarily due to higher capital expenditures in recent periods as we continue to invest in our network and data center infrastructure to support the growth of our subscription and hosted services business. Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue increased 3% during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to an increase in royalty costs related to our stock photography perpetual offering from our acquisition of Fotolia in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, largely offset by decreases in localization costs, amortization of purchased intangibles, cost of sales and excess and obsolete inventory. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased due to the following: % Change 2016-2015 QTD Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 23 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount (3 ) Professional and consulting fees 15 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 38 % Professional and consulting fees increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to increases in third-party fees related to training and consulting services provided to our customers. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Research and development $ 237.2 $ 215.5 10 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 19 % Sales and marketing 474.9 392.7 21 % Percentage of total revenue 34 % 35 % General and administrative 146.9 145.1 1 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 13 % Restructuring and other charges (0.4 ) 1.8 ** Percentage of total revenue * * Amortization of purchased intangibles 18.4 14.3 29 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 877.0 $ 769.4 14 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses The increase in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 was primarily due to the increase in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount and cash incentives due to higher costs associated with our incentive compensation program in fiscal 2016. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 due to the following: % Change 2016-2015 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 4 % Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 6 Professional and consulting fees 4 Seminars and customer events (4 ) Total change 10 % The decrease in seminars and customer events during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 is primarily due to a technical event for our engineers which was held during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 that did not occur during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. 34 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 due to the following: % Change 2016-2015 QTD Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 5 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 6 Marketing spending related to product launches and overall marketing efforts 7 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 21 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 due to the following: % Change 2016-2015 QTD Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 3 % Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 4 Charitable contributions (11 ) Software licenses 3 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 1 % The decrease in charitable contributions during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 is primarily due to the timing of planned contributions to the Adobe Foundation. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Amortization expenses increased 29% during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Fotolia in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. 35 Table of Contents Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 4.2 $ 3.3 27 % Percentage of total revenue * * Interest expense (18.5 ) (14.5 ) 28 % Percentage of total revenue (1 )% (1 )% Investment gains (losses), net (1.2 ) 1.4 ** Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (15.5 ) $ (9.8 ) 58 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses other than any gains recorded to revenue from hedging Euros, British Pounds and Yen currencies. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily represents interest associated with our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps are paid monthly. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 due to increases in total debt, partially offset by the favorable impact of the interest rate swaps. See Notes 5 and 12 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of realized gains and losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities and unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities) and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2016 2015 % Change Provision $ 38.0 $ 78.4 (51.5 )% Percentage of total revenue 3 % 7 % Effective tax rate 13 % 48 % Our effective tax rate decreased by 35 percentage points for the three months ended March 4, 2016 as compared to the three months ended February 27, 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to U.S. tax benefits related to the permanent extension of the U.S. Research and Development credit for 2015 and onward. The reinstatement of the credit was retroactive to January 1, 2015. A tax benefit for the credit relating to fiscal 2015 was reflected in its entirety in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. In addition, the effective tax rate during the three months ended February 27, 2015 included a one-time tax cost associated with licensing acquired company assets to Adobes trading companies, offset by tax benefits for the temporary reinstatement of the U.S. Research and Development credit in December 2014. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the United States, we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless 36 Table of Contents the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the United States. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. Currently, there is a significant amount of foreign earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 4, 2016 was $262.7 million , exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 4, 2016 were recognized in the future, $224.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $37.8 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. As of March 4, 2016 , the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $29.6 million . This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $10.0 million . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of (in millions) March 4, 2016 November 27, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents $ 830.7 $ 876.6 Short-term investments $ 3,267.2 $ 3,111.5 Working capital $ 2,703.6 $ 2,608.3 Stockholders equity $ 7,081.2 $ 7,001.6 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 4, 2016 February 27, 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 497.5 $ 183.0 Net cash used for investing activities (258.8 ) (698.4 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (284.4 ) 119.3 Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.2 ) (8.4 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (45.9 ) $ (404.5 ) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and participation in the employee stock purchase plan. Other uses of cash include our stock repurchase program, which is described below, business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $497.5 million for the three months ended March 4, 2016 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with increases in deferred revenue, and decreases in trade receivables. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to increases in Digital Marketing hosted services and increased subscriptions for our Creative Cloud offerings. Trade receivables declined primarily due to improved collections during the three months ended March 4, 2016 within the same quarter as a result of the extra week in the quarter. 37 Table of Contents The primary working capital uses of cash were increases in prepaid expenses and other current assets and decreases in accrued expenses. Prepaid expenses increased primarily due to higher prepaid employee benefit expenses largely associated with recognition of yearly fringe benefit expenses which are estimated and recorded at the beginning of the fiscal year and expensed throughout the fiscal year. Other current assets increased primarily due to the tax benefit associated with the reinstatement of the federal research and development tax credit and bonus depreciation provisions. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to payment of fiscal 2015 bonuses, commissions, and other incentive plans in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We also made a semi-annual interest payment associated with our senior notes during the three months ended March 4, 2016 . These reductions were partially offset by additional interest accruals made during the period. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $258.8 million for the three months ended March 4, 2016 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 4, 2016 represented purchases of property and equipment, and long-term investments and other assets. These cash outflows were offset in part by sales and maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $284.4 million was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and costs associated with the issuance of treasury stock, offset in part by proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2016 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Our intent is to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited, to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. On March 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries. On March 1, 2013, we exercised our option under the Credit Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement by one year to March 2, 2018. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. As of March 4, 2016 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of March 4, 2016 , the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.9 billion , consisting of $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 . Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate bonds and commercial paper, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities.We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 59% of our consolidated invested balances during fiscal 2016 . 38 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program granting the Company authority to repurchase up to $2 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2017. During the three months ended March 4, 2016 and February 27, 2015 , we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $150 million and $200 million , respectively. The prepayment of $150 million for the three months ended March 4, 2016 was under the current $2 billion authority while the prepayment of $200 million during the three months ended February 27, 2015 was under the previous $2 billion authority. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 4, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 1.5 million shares at an average price of $88.67 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2015 and the three months ended March 4, 2016 . During the three months ended February 27, 2015 , we repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares at an average price of $72.39 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2014 and the three months ended February 27, 2015 . For the three months ended March 4, 2016 , the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by March 4, 2016 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of March 4, 2016 , $54.8 million of prepayments remained under the agreement. Subsequent to March 4, 2016 , as part of our $2 billion stock repurchase program, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $225 million . This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon completion of the $225 million stock repurchase agreement, $1.2 billion remains under our current authority. Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 4, 2016 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 27, 2015 . Our principal commitments as of March 4, 2016 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 4, 2016 . See Notes 11 and 12 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments. Senior Notes Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 4, 2016 , our maximum commitment for interest payments was $463.5 million for the remaining duration of our senior notes. Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. Our Almaden Tower lease includes certain financial ratios as defined in the lease agreements that are reported to the lessor quarterly. As of March 4, 2016 , we were in compliance with all of our covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement and lease agreements, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 39 Table of Contents Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited, however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.