Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Fiscal Years 2010 2009 (1) 2008 2007 2006 Operations: Revenue $ 3,800,000 $ 2,945,853 $ 3,579,889 $ 3,157,881 $ 2,575,300 Gross profit $ 3,396,498 $ 2,649,121 $ 3,217,259 $ 2,803,187 $ 2,282,843 Income before income taxes $ 943,151 $ 701,520 $ 1,078,508 $ 947,190 $ 679,727 Net income $ 774,680 $ 386,508 $ 871,814 $ 723,807 $ 505,809 Net income per share: Basic $ 1.49 $ 0.74 $ 1.62 $ 1.24 $ 0.85 Diluted $ 1.47 $ 0.73 $ 1.59 $ 1.21 $ 0.83 Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Financial position: (2) Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 2,468,015 $ 1,904,473 $ 2,019,202 $ 1,993,854 $ 2,280,879 Working capital $ 2,147,962 $ 1,629,071 $ 1,972,504 $ 1,720,441 $ 2,208,688 Total assets $ 8,141,148 $ 7,282,237 $ 5,821,598 $ 5,713,679 $ 5,962,548 Debt and capital lease obligations, non- current $ 1,513,662 $ 1,000,000 $ 350,000 $ $ Stockholders equity $ 5,192,387 $ 4,890,568 $ 4,410,354 $ 4,649,982 $ 5,151,876 Additional data: Worldwide employees 9,117 8,660 7,544 6,794 6,068 _________________________________________ (1) Fiscal 2009 includes the integration of Omniture into our operations which was not present in the prior years. See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our Omniture acquisition. (2) Information associated with our financial position is as of the Friday closest to November 30 for the five fiscal periods through 2010. 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth and market opportunities which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part 1, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in fiscal 2011. When used in this report, the words expects, could, would, ma y, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of creative, business, Web and mobile software and services used by creative professionals, knowledge workers, developers, marketers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We distribute our products through a network of distributors, VARs, systems integrators, ISVs and OEMs. We also market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users and through our own Website at www.adobe.com. In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers, and provide some of our solutions via SaaS, also known as hosted or cloud-based offerings. Our software runs on PCs and server-based computers, as well as various non-PC and mobile devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, EMEA and Asia. ACQUISITIONS On October 28, 2010, we completed the acquisition of Day, a provider of WCM, digital asset management and social collaboration solutions based in Basel, Switzerland and Boston, Massachusetts for approximately $248.3 million. Days Web solutions combined with our existing enterprise portfolio will enable customers to better integrate their global Web presence and business applications in support of acquiring, servicing and retaining customers. We have included the financial results of Day in our consolidated results of operations beginning on the acquisition date however the impact of this acquisition was not material to our consolidated balance sheets and results of operations. Following the closing, we integrated Day as a product line within our Enterprise segment for financial reporting purposes. On October 23, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Omniture, an industry leader in Web analytics and online business optimization based in Orem, Utah, for approximately $1.8 billion. Accordingly, we have included the results of the business operations acquired from Omniture in our consolidated results of operations beginning on October 24, 2009. Coinciding with the integration of Omniture, we created a new reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these acquisitions . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. Revenue Recognition Our revenue is derived from the licensing of software products, associated software maintenance and support plans, custom software development and consulting services and training. To a lesser extent our revenue includes non-software related hosting services, custom hosting development and consulting services, and technical support and training for hosting services. We recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. We enter into multiple element revenue arrangements in which a customer may purchase a combination of software, upgrades, maintenance and support, hosting services, and consulting. For our software and software related multiple element arrangements, we must: (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine the fair value of each element using VSOE, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements. VSOE of fair value is used to allocate a portion of the price to the undelivered elements and the residual method is used to allocate the remaining portion to the delivered elements. Absent VSOE, revenue is deferred until the earlier of the point at which VSOE of fair value exists for any undelivered element or until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. However, if the only undelivered element is maintenance and support, the entire arra ngement fee is recognized ratably over the performance period. Changes in assumptions or judgments or changes to the elements in a software arrangement could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. In October 2009, the FASB amended the accounting standards for certain multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using BESP of deliverables if a vendor does not have VSOE of selling price or TPE of selling price; and eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our fiscal quarter of 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after November 27, 2009. Our revenue from sales containing non-software related hosting services, custom hosting development and consulting services, and related technical support and training are those impacted. For multiple element arrangements containing our non-software services, we must (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of VSOE of fair value, TPE or BESP, as applicable, and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements based on the relative selling price method. This guidance does not generally change the units of accounting for our revenue transactions. For multiple-element arrangements that contain software and non-software elements such as our hosted offerings, we allocate revenue to software or software related elements as a group and any non-software elements separately based on the selling price hierarchy. We determine the selling price for each deliverable using VSOE of selling price, if it exists, or TPE of selling price. If neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price exist for a deliverable, we use its BESP for that deliverable. Once revenue is allocated to software or software related elements as a group, it follows historic software accounting guidance. Revenue is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. Consistent with our methodology under previous accounting guidance, we determine VSOE for each element based on historical stand-alone sales to third-parties or from the stated renewal rate for the elements contained in the initial arrangement. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range. 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS In certain instances, we are not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products or services within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, we attempt to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our offerings contain significant differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we typically are not able to obtain TPE of selling price. When we are unable to establish selling prices using VSOE or TPE, we use BESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP is generally used for offerings that are not typically sold on a stand-alone basis or for new or highly customized offerings. We determine BESP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to major product groupings, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives and pricing practices. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include historic contractually stated prices, volume discounts where applicable and our price lists. The most common fact pattern that emerged through analyzing these factors supports a BESP closely tied to Adobes list prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and formal approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategy. We regularly review VSOE and have established a review process for TPE and BESP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There was no material impact to revenue during the year ended December 3, 2010 resulting from changes in VSOE, TPE or BESP, nor do we expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. We have established VSOE for our software maintenance and support services, custom software development services, and training. We have established BESP for all other offerings, including software products, non-software related hosting services, custom hosting development and consulting services, and technical support and training for hosting services. Given the nature of our transactions, which are primarily software and software-related, our go-to-market strategies and our pricing practices, total net revenue as reported during the year ended December 3, 2010 is materially consistent with total net revenue that would have been reported if the transactions entered into or materially modified after November 27, 2009 were subject to previous accounting guidance. Additionally, the new accounting standards for revenue recognition, if applied in the same manner to the year ended November 27, 2009, would not have had a material impact on total net revenues for that fiscal year. We do expect that this new accounting guidance will facilitate our efforts to optimize our offerings due to better alignment between the economics of an arrangement and the accounting. This may lead us to engage in new go-to-market practices in the future. In particular, we expect that the new accounting standards will enable us to better integrate products and services without VSOE into existing offerings and solutions. As these go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ materially from the results in the current period. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between elements may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We are currently unable to determine the impact that the newly adopted accounting principles could have on our revenue as these go-to-market strategies evolve. In addition to multiple element arrangements, we must estimate certain royalty revenue amounts due to the timing of securing information from our customers. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, our assumptions and judgments regarding future products and services as well as our estimates of royalty revenue could differ from actual events, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. Product revenue is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce the revenue recognized for estimated future returns, price protection and rebates at the time the related revenue is recorded. In determining our estimate for returns and in accordance with our internal policy regarding global channel inventory which is used to determine the level of product held by our distributors on which we have recognized revenue, we rely upon historical data, the estimated amount of product inventory in our distribution channel, the rate at which our product sells through to the end user, product plans and other factors. Our estimated provisions for returns can vary from what actually occurs. Product returns may be more or less than what was estimated. The amount of inventory in the channel could be different than what is estimated. Our est imate of the rate of sell through for product in the channel could be different than what actually occurs. There could be a delay in the 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS release of our products. These factors and unanticipated changes in the economic and industry environment could make our return estimates differ from actual returns, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. We offer price protection to our distributors that allows for the right to a credit if we permanently reduce the price of a software product. When evaluating the adequacy of the price protection allowance, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our products, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories. Changes to these assumptions or in the economic environment could result in higher returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protection may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. We recognize revenues for hosting services that are based on a committed number of transactions ratably beginning on the date the customer commences use of our services and continuing through the end of the customer term. Over-usage fees, and fees billed based on the actual number of transactions from which we capture data, are billed in accordance with contract terms as these fees are incurred. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our consulting revenue is recognized on a time and materials basis and is measured monthly based on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. For our on-going traditional employee equity awards, we currently use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) shares. The determination of the fair value of stock-based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk-free interest rate, estimated forfeitures and expected dividends. We estimate the expected term of options granted by calculating the average term from our historical stock option exercise experience. We estimate the volatility of our common stock by using implied volatility in market traded options. Our decision to use implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. We base the risk-free interest rate on zero-coupon yields implied from U.S. Treasury issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero in the option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of g rant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. If we use different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods or if actual forfeitures differ materially from our estimated forfeitures, the change in our stock-based compensation expense could materially affect our operating income, net income and net income per share. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, assumed equity awards, as well as to in-process research and development based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, deferred revenue obligations and equity assumed. 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the acquired companys trade name and trademarks as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademarks will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio; and discount rates. In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the deferred revenue obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the obligations are based on the historical costs related to fulfilling the obligations. In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the equity awards assumed. The estimated fair value is determined utilizing a modified binomial option pricing model which assumes employees exercise their stock options when the share price exceeds the strike price by a certain dollar threshold. If the acquired company has significant historical data on their employees exercise behavior, then this threshold is determined based upon the acquired companys history. Otherwise, our historical exercise experience is used to determine the exercise threshold. Zero coupon yields implied by U.S. Treasury issues, implied volatility for our common stock and our historical forfeiture rate are other inputs to the binomial model. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Goodwill Impairment We complete our goodwill impairment test on an annual basis, during the second quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that an impairment in the value of goodwill recorded on our balance sheet may exist. In order to estimate the fair value of goodwill, we typically estimate future revenue, consider market factors and estimate our future cash flows. Based on these key assumptions, judgments and estimates, we determine whether we need to record an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset carried on our balance sheet to its estimated fair value. Assumptions, judgments and estimates about future values are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as c hanges in our business strategy or our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our reported financial results. We completed our annual impairment test in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and determined there was no impairment. We currently believe that there is no significant risk of future material goodwill impairment in any of our reporting units. Accounting for Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management must make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the current provision for income taxes take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. We have established reserves for income taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that could be challenged by tax authorities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, including a current examination by the IRS for our 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS fiscal 2008 and 2009 tax returns. These examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of the current and any future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income, such as income from operations or capital gains income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In December 2010, the FASB issued updated accounting guidance related to the calculation of the carrying amount of a reporting unit when performing the first step of a goodwill impairment test. More specifically, this update will require an entity to use an equity premise when performing the first step of a goodwill impairment test and if a reporting unit has a zero or negative carrying amount, the entity must assess and consider qualitative factors and whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. The new accounting guidance is effective for public entities, for impairment tests performed during entities fiscal years (and interim periods within those years) that begin after December 15, 2010. Early application is not permitted. We will adopt the new disclosures in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, howev er as we currently do not have any reporting units with a zero or negative carrying amount, we do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued updated accounting guidance to clarify that pro forma disclosures should be presented as if a business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior annual period for purposes of preparing both the current reporting period and the prior reporting period pro forma financial information. These disclosures should be accompanied by a narrative description about the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments. The new accounting guidance is effective for business combinations consummated in periods beginning after December 15, 2010, and should be applied prospectively as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. We will adopt the new disclosures in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. We do not believe that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact to ou r consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of 2010 Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, to better align our marketing efforts and go-to-market strategies, we moved management responsibility for the Connect Solutions product line from our Knowledge Worker segment to our Enterprise segment. Prior year information has been updated to reflect this change. For fiscal 2010, we reported record revenue with strong financial results including exceeding $1 billion in quarterly revenue for the first time in company history. Our performance was driven by continued adoption of CS5, which is our flagship product family that began shipping in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Our fiscal 2010 performance also benefitted from strength in other key business segments including our Knowledge Worker, Omniture, Enterprise and Print and Publishing segments. Fiscal 2010 financial results also benefitted from an extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2010 is a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2009 which was a 52-week year. In our Creative Solutions segment, broad adoption of CS5 continued to drive the overall performance of our creative business and contributed to strong revenue growth in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009. Since its release, CS5 revenue has grown approximately 21% when compared to a comparable period of time for CS4 products. The successful launch of Adobe Lightroom version 3 also contributed to our success in our creative business. 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Knowledge Worker segment achieved 17% growth in fiscal 2010 when compared to fiscal 2009 due to continued solid demand for our Acrobat product family. We attribute this performance to strength in enterprise licensing of Acrobat across all geographies as well as the improved economic conditions in certain markets and geographies where we focus on Acrobat adoption. We achieved strong growth in fiscal 2010 with our Enterprise segment, which grew 18% when compared to fiscal 2009. We believe our increased investment in this business over the past several years is beginning to result in improved financial performance in the segment. Further, we believe the CEM value proposition of our enterprise products is resonating with industry analysts and customers, including Adobe Connect for efficient Web-conferencing, and Adobe LiveCycle which makes it easier for people to interact with information from enterprise systems through intuitive user experiences, improve efficiencies through business process automation, and enhance customer service through personalized communications management. In our Omniture business, we maintained strong momentum in fiscal 2010. Driving this success was increased awareness of our Online Marketing Suite value proposition in the marketplace as well as strong bookings performance. The number of Omniture user transactions in fiscal 2010 was 5.07 trillion, an increase of 12% when compared to fiscal 2009. Our Platform business declined slightly in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009 primarily due to lower revenue from OEM relationships. Our Print and Publishing business segment grew in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009 primarily due to a non-recurring revenue deal as well as the launch of new products, including Adobe eLearning Suite version 2 and Adobe Captivate version 5. Revenue (dollars in millions) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 % Change 2010-2009 % Change 2009-2008 Product $ 3,159.2 $ 2,684.8 $ 3,354.6 18 % (20 )% Percentage of total revenue 83 % 91 % 94 % Subscription 386.8 74.6 41.9 * 78 % Percentage of total revenue 10 % 3 % 1 % Services and support 254.0 186.5 183.4 36 % 2 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 6 % 5 % Total revenue $ 3,800.0 $ 2,945.9 $ 3,579.9 29 % (18 )% _________________________________________ * Percentage is greater than 100%. Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our hosted service offerings including our hosted online business optimization services. We recognize subscription revenues ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. Of the $386.8 million and $74.6 million in subscription revenue for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, approximately $309.1 million and $22.2 million, respectively, is from our Omniture segment with the remaining amounts representing our other business offerings. Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted online business optimization services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings which entitle customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segments In fiscal 2010, we categorized our products into the following segments: Creative Solutions, Knowledge Worker, Enterprise, Omniture, Platform, and Print and Publishing products. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, to better align our marketing efforts and go-to-market strategies, we moved management responsibility for the Adobe Connect product line from our Knowledge Worker segment to our Enterprise segment. Creative Solutions Our Creative Solutions segment focuses on delivering a complete professional line of integrated tools for a full range of creative and developer tasks to an extended set of customers. 63 TABLE OF CONTENTS Knowledge Worker O ur Knowledge Worker segment focuses on the needs of knowledge worker customers, providing essential applications and services to help them share information and collaborate. This segment contains our Adobe Acrobat family of products. Enterprise Our Enterprise segment provides server-based CEM solutions to enterprise and government customers to optimize their information intensive customer-facing processes and improve the overall customer experience of their constituents. This segment contains our Adobe LiveCycle and Adobe Connect product lines. Omniture Our Omniture segment provides Web analytics and online business optimization products and services to manage and enhance online, offline and multi-channel business initiatives. Platform Our Platform segment includes client and developer technologies, such as Adobe Flash Player, Adobe Flash Lite, Adobe AIR, Adobe Flex, Adobe Flash Builder, ColdFusion, and also encompasses products and technologies created and managed in other Adobe segments. Print and Publishing Our Print and Publishing segment addresses market opportunities ranging from the diverse publishing needs of technical and business publishing to our legacy type and OEM printing businesses. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 % Change 2010-2009 % Change 2009-2008 Creative Solutions $ 2,056.5 $ 1,702.1 $ 2,072.8 21 % (18 )% Percentage of total revenue 54 % 58 % 58 % Knowledge Worker 654.4 557.6 757.7 17 % (26 )% Percentage of total revenue 18 % 19 % 21 % Enterprise 355.0 300.9 306.2 18 % (2 )% Percentage of total revenue 9 % 10 % 9 % Omniture 360.6 26.3 * * Percentage of total revenue 9 % 1 % % Platform 178.9 181.0 231.6 (1 )% (22 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % 6 % Print and Publishing 194.6 178.0 211.6 9 % (16 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % 6 % Total revenue $ 3,800.0 $ 2,945.9 $ 3,579.9 29 % (18 )% _________________________________________ * Percentage is greater than 100%. Fiscal 2010 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2009 Revenue Revenue from Creative Solutions increased $354.4 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to strong licensing of CS4 during fiscal 2010 until the release of CS5, as well as strong adoption of CS5 beginning in the second quarter of the fiscal year. The increase was driven largely by a 23% increase in both Creative Suites and Photoshop point product revenue as compared to the prior year. The overall number of units licensed increased 23% when compared to fiscal 2009. Unit average selling prices, excluding large enterprise license agreement (ELA) deals, remained relatively stable during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Revenue from Knowledge Worker increased $96.8 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. We attribute this success to strength in enterprise licensing of Acrobat and improved economic conditions in certain markets and geographies where we focus on Acrobat adoption. A 19% increase in the number of units licensed also contributed to the increase in revenue. Unit average selling prices, excluding large ELA deals, have remained relatively stable. Revenue from Enterprise increased $54.1 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to increased adoption of our LiveCycle and Connect products as well as the acquisition of Day, which closed late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and contributed $5.4 million in revenue. Revenue from Omniture increased $334.3 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. We acquired Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and therefore do not have a full fiscal year of revenue for 2009 in which to provide a comparison between fiscal years. 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue from Platform decreased $2.1 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease was due to lower developer tool revenue based on the inclusion of developer tools within some CS5 suites, offset in part by an increase in distribution revenue from OEM relationships with companies such as Google, where we offer their technologies as part of the download of Flash Player, Shockwave Player and Reader and generate revenue through successful installations of these technologies. Revenue from Print and Publishing increased $16.6 million during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to an improved economic environment in certain markets and geographies, the launch of new products, fees received for engineering services and royalties related to PostScript products. Fiscal 2009 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2008 Revenue Revenue from Creative Solutions decreased $370.7 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to reduced adoption of our CS family of products because of the global recession and generally weak macro-economic environment in fiscal 2009. The decrease was driven largely by a 15% decline in Creative Suites related revenue and a decline of 27% in Photoshop point product revenue. Also contributing to the decrease was an overall decline in the number of units licensed. Average unit selling prices remained relatively consistent. Revenue in Knowledge Worker decreased $200.1 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 for similar reasons as Creative Solutions in addition to a decrease in the licensing of our Acrobat family of products. We attribute the decline in revenue to lower volume licensing by our enterprise customers, as well as a decrease in the number of units sold through our shrink-wrap distribution channel. Average unit selling prices remained relatively consistent. Revenue from Enterprise decreased $5.3 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the economic slowdown in fiscal 2009 which resulted in reduced spending by our enterprise customers. We acquired Omniture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and as such, there is no prior fiscal 2008 period with which to compare Omniture fiscal 2009 revenue. Revenue from Platform decreased $50.6 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 due to the impact of the OSP which we announced on May 1, 2008, and involves the removal of certain licensing fees of our Flash Lite client with OEMs. Revenue in Print and Publishing decreased $33.6 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 due to reduced demand because of the global macro-economic downturn in fiscal 2009. Geographic Information (dollars in millions) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 % Change 2010-2009 % Change 2009-2008 Americas $ 1,859.0 $ 1,382.6 $ 1,632.8 34 % (15 )% Percentage of total revenue 49 % 46 % 46 % EMEA 1,168.2 928.9 1,229.2 26 % (24 )% Percentage of total revenue 31 % 32 % 34 % Asia 772.8 634.4 717.9 22 % (12 )% Percentage of total revenue 20 % 22 % 20 % Total revenue $ 3,800.0 $ 2,945.9 $ 3,579.9 29 % (18 )% Fiscal 2010 Revenue by Geography Compared to Fiscal 2009 Revenue by Geography Overall revenue in each of the geographic segments for fiscal 2010 increased compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the launch of CS5 in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as well as additional revenue from Omniture which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Increased revenue in our Knowledge Worker and Enterprise business segments also contributed to the increase as well as an improved economy across all geographies. Included in the overall increase in revenue were impacts associated with foreign currency. The U.S. dollar strengthened against both the Euro and British pound causing revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. dollars to decrease by approximately $18.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, as compared to fiscal 2009. Revenue in Japan measured in U.S. dollars was favorably impacted by approximately $23.7 million due to the strength of the Yen against the U.S. dollar as compared to fiscal 2009. The Australian dollar also strengthened against the U.S. dollar resulting in a favorable impact to revenue of approximately $12.1 million during fiscal 2010. We had no comparable impact to revenue from the Australian dollar during fiscal 2009. Our currency hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the foreign currency impact to rev enue. During 65 TABLE OF CONTENTS fiscal 2010, our currency hedging program related to EMEA and Japan resulted in hedging gains of $19.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Fiscal 2009 Revenue by Geography Compared to Fiscal 2008 Revenue by Geography Overall revenue in each of the geographic segments for fiscal 2009 decreased compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the global economic recession, which resulted in reduced adoption of many of our major products. Included in the overall decrease in revenue were impacts associated with foreign currency. Revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. dollars decreased approximately $47.1 million, due to the strength of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, as compared to fiscal 2008. Our currency hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the foreign currency impact to revenue. Revenue in Asia measured in U.S. dollars was favorably impacted by approximately $32.8 million due to the strength of the Yen against the U.S. dollar as compared to fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2009, our currency hedging program related to the Euro and Yen resulted in hedging gains of $25.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively. See Item 7A,