ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition, the amount of recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2016. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers. In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2017 , we reported strong financial results consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Marketing, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. Our first quarter of fiscal 2016 financial results benefited from an extra week in the quarter due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2016 was a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2017 which is a 52-week year. In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Adobe Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering for creating and publishing content and applications. Creative Cloud delivers value through frequent product updates, storage and access to user files stored in the cloud with syncing of files across users' machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. These Creative Cloud offerings address the multiple routes to market we use to license our creative software to targeted customers. Adoption of Creative Cloud has transformed our business model, and we continue to expect this to drive higher long-term revenue growth through an expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users through a lower cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery 28 Table of Contents and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products is now immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Adobe Document Cloud offerings built around our Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services, including Adobe Sign. Adobe Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Adobe Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enables users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC, with a touch-enabled user interface, is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2017 and held constant throughout the year. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Digital Publishing Suite Contract Value + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $3.76 billion , up from $3.52 billion at the end of fiscal 2016 . Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $493 million , up from $472 million at the end of fiscal 2016 . Total Digital Media ARR grew to $4.25 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , up from $3.99 billion at the end of fiscal 2016 . Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $942.2 million , up from $732.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and representing 29% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $195.9 million , slightly down from $198.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 as we continue to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $1,138.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, up from $931.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and representing 22% year-over-year growth. 29 Table of Contents We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Marketing segment. Our Digital Marketing business provides comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. We deliver these capabilities through our Adobe Marketing Cloud, an integrated offering enabling marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. With its broad set of solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer (AMO), Adobe Experience Manager (AEM), Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager and Adobe Primetime, as well as real-time dashboards and a collaborative interface, customers of Adobe Marketing Cloud are able to combine data, insights and digital content to deliver a personalized, relevant experience to their constituents. In addition to chief marketing officers and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions include marketing professionals such as search engine marketers, media managers, media buyers and marketing research analysts. Customers also include web content editors, web analysts and web marketing managers. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings and our video workflow and delivery technologies. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct salesforce to market and license our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners including marketing agencies, systems integrators and developers that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. We achieved record Marketing Cloud revenue of $477.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , which represents 26% year-over-year revenue growth. In December 2016, we acquired TubeMogul and we began integrating TubeMogul in our Digital Marketing business in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. TubeMoguls advertising platform offerings contributed $32.1 million to the increase in Marketing Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect that the addition of TubeMogul and sustained demand across our portfolio of Marketing Cloud solutions will drive revenue growth in future years. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 3, 2017 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 2, 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. 30 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2017 Our results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 were favorably impacted by an extra week due to our first quarter of fiscal 2016 having 14 weeks as compared to 13 weeks in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $4.25 billion as of March 3, 2017 increased by $265 million , or 7% , from $3.99 billion as of December 2, 2016 . The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to strong adoption of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings. Creative revenue during the three months ended March 3, 2017 of $942.2 million increased by $209.3 million , or 29% compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings. Adobe Marketing Cloud revenue of $477.3 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased by $99.9 million , or 26% , compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to continued adoption of our AEM offerings and increases in revenue associated with AMO which includes revenue from our advertising platform offerings from our acquisition of TubeMogul in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Our total deferred revenue of $2.06 billion as of March 3, 2017 increased by $45.5 million , or 2% , from $2.01 billion as of December 2, 2016 primarily due to new contracts and renewals for our Adobe Marketing Cloud services. Cost of revenue of $237.3 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased by $38.8 million , or 19% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in data center costs, media costs related to our advertising platform offerings from our acquisition of TubeMogul in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount. Operating expenses of $975.3 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased by $98.3 million , or 11% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount. Net income of $398.4 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased by $144.1 million , or 57% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to subscription revenue increases. Net cash flow from operations of $730.4 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased by $232.8 million , or 47% , compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily due to higher net income and the decrease in trade receivables, excluding TubeMogul acquired trade receivables. Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 (dollars in millions) Revenue for the three months ended March 4, 2016 were favorably impacted by an extra week due to our first quarter of fiscal 2016 having 14 weeks as compared to 13 weeks in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Subscription $ 1,383.8 $ 1,070.2 29 % Percentage of total revenue 82 % 77 % Product 183.4 201.1 (9 )% Percentage of total revenue 11 % 15 % Services and support 114.4 112.0 2 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 8 % Total revenue $ 1,681.6 $ 1,383.3 22 % 31 Table of Contents Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Marketing Cloud and Document Cloud services. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. As described in Note 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements , we have the following segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 are as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Digital Media $ 1,006.9 $ 781.9 29 % Digital Marketing 367.1 280.9 31 % Print and Publishing 9.8 7.4 32 % Total subscription revenue $ 1,383.8 $ 1,070.2 29 % Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted Adobe Marketing Cloud services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Digital Media $ 1,138.1 $ 931.7 22 % Percentage of total revenue 68 % 68 % Digital Marketing 501.1 406.2 23 % Percentage of total revenue 30 % 29 % Print and Publishing 42.4 45.4 (7 )% Percentage of total revenue 2 % 3 % Total revenue $ 1,681.6 $ 1,383.3 22 % Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $206.4 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily driven by increases in revenue associated with our creative offerings. Revenue associated with our creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetual creative and stock photography offerings, increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings driven by the increases in number of paid Creative Cloud individual and team subscriptions. These increases were slightly offset by expected declines in revenue associated with our perpetual creative offerings. Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, decreased slightly during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the year ago period primarily due to expected decreases in revenue associated with our perpetual Acrobat license offering. The decreases were partially offset by increases in revenue associated with our Document Cloud subscription offerings as we continue to migrate more customers to our Document Cloud, as well as increases in Adobe Sign revenue. 32 Table of Contents Digital Marketing Revenue from Digital Marketing increased $94.9 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily due to continued revenue growth associated with our Adobe Marketing Cloud, which increased 26% during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the year-ago period. The increases in Adobe Marketing Cloud revenue were primarily driven by the continued adoption of our AEM offerings and increases in revenue associated with AMO which includes revenue from our advertising platform offerings from our acquisition of TubeMogul in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Also contributing to the increase in Adobe Marketing Cloud revenue were increases in revenue associated with Adobe Campaign and Adobe Audience Manager during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Americas $ 975.8 $ 806.5 21 % Percentage of total revenue 58 % 58 % EMEA 459.1 385.6 19 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 28 % APAC 246.7 191.2 29 % Percentage of total revenue 15 % 14 % Total revenue $ 1,681.6 $ 1,383.3 22 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 3, 2017 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily due to increases in Digital Media and Digital Marketing revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Further, the overall increase in EMEA revenue was slightly offset by declines due to the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies. Foreign currency impacts to revenue for the three months ended March 3, 2017 are shown below. (in millions) 2017 Revenue impact: Increase/ (Decrease) Euro $ (3.9 ) British Pound (16.4 ) Japanese Yen 7.6 Other currencies 0.8 Total revenue impact (11.9 ) Hedging impact: Euro 7.9 British Pound 5.0 Japanese Yen 5.4 Total hedging impact 18.3 Total impact $ 6.4 During the three months ended March 3, 2017 , the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against EMEA currencies caused revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents to decrease as compared to the year-ago periods. These decreases were slightly offset by hedging gains from our EMEA currency hedging programs during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . 33 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Subscription $ 141.2 $ 107.3 32 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 8 % Product 14.3 20.3 (30 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Services and support 81.8 71.0 15 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Total cost of revenue $ 237.3 $ 198.6 19 % Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party royalties and expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our advertising platform offerings. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 due to the following: % Change 2017-2016 QTD Data center costs 11 % Media costs 10 Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 6 Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 2 Royalty cost 1 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 32 % Data center costs increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the year-ago periods primarily due to higher transaction volumes in our Adobe Marketing Cloud and Creative Cloud services. Also contributing to the increase in cost of subscription revenue during the three months ended March 3, 2017 were increases in media costs related to our advertising platform offerings from our acquisition of TubeMogul in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue decreased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 primarily due to decreases in amortization of purchased intangibles and royalty costs. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. 34 Table of Contents Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 due to the following: % Change 2017-2016 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 16 % Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 1 Professional and consulting fees (5 ) Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 15 % Professional and consulting fees decreased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the year-ago period primarily due to decreased usage of outside consultants to provide consulting and training services to our customers. Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Research and development $ 285.1 $ 237.2 20 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 17 % Sales and marketing 520.3 474.9 10 % Percentage of total revenue 31 % 34 % General and administrative 150.8 146.5 3 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 11 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 19.1 18.4 4 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 975.3 $ 877.0 11 % Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses The increase in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 was primarily due to increases in costs associated with compensation and related benefits driven by increased headcount. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 due to the following: % Change 2017-2016 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 11 % Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 3 Professional and consulting fees 2 Seminars and events 4 Total change 20 % The increase in seminars and events during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 was primarily due to a technical event for our engineers which was held during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 that did not occur during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. 35 Table of Contents We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 due to the following: % Change 2017-2016 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 5 % Professional and consulting fees 2 Marketing spending related to offering launches and overall marketing efforts 1 Various individually insignificant items 2 Total change 10 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016 due to the following: % Change 2017-2016 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 % Compensation associated with cash and stock-based incentives 2 Professional and consulting fees (3 ) Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 3 % Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 7.2 $ 4.2 71 % Percentage of total revenue * * Interest expense (18.1 ) (18.5 ) (2 )% Percentage of total revenue (1 )% (1 )% Investment gains (losses), net 2.5 (1.2 ) ** Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (8.4 ) $ (15.5 ) (46 )% _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. 36 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses other than any gains recorded to revenue from hedging Euros, British Pounds and Yen currencies. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily represents interest associated with our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps are paid monthly. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. See Notes 5 and 12 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of realized gains and losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities and unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2017 2016 % Change Provision $ 62.2 $ 38.0 64 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 3 % Effective tax rate 14 % 13 % Our effective tax rate increased by one percentage point for the three months ended March 3, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2016. The increase was due to a one-time tax cost associated with licensing acquired company assets to our trading companies. The increase was offset by the recognition of excess tax benefits due to our early adoption of the new accounting guidance relating to stock-based compensation and the completion of certain income tax examinations. In addition, the effective tax rate during the three months ended March 4, 2016 included a one-time tax benefit related to the retroactive reinstatement of the fiscal 2015 U.S. Research and Development credit. As described in Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements , we early adopted the updated accounting standard for share-based payment accounting in the three months ended March 3, 2017. As a result, we recorded deferred tax attributes that we were previously tracking pursuant to the rules that preceded this standard. The deferred tax asset recorded with the adoption was offset by the establishment of a valuation allowance. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the United States, we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the United States. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. Currently, there is a significant amount of foreign earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 3, 2017 was $152.2 million , exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 3, 2017 were recognized in the future, $126.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $25.8 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. As of March 3, 2017 , the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $17.2 million . This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. 37 Table of Contents The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $25.0 million . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of (in millions) March 3, 2017 December 2, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,068.9 $ 1,011.3 Short-term investments $ 3,578.7 $ 3,750.0 Working capital $ 2,801.5 $ 3,028.1 Stockholders equity $ 7,588.7 $ 7,424.8 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 3, 2017 March 4, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 730.4 $ 497.5 Net cash used for investing activities (338.9 ) (258.8 ) Net cash used for financing activities (331.5 ) (284.4 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2.4 ) (0.2 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 57.6 $ (45.9 ) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of employee stock options. Other uses of cash include our stock repurchase program, which is described below, business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $730.4 million for the three months ended March 3, 2017 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with decreases in trade receivables excluding TubeMogul acquired trade receivables, and increases in deferred revenue. Trade receivables declined primarily due to strong collections and improved revenue linearity during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increases in Digital Marketing hosted services, offset in part by decreases in site and term licenses for certain offerings. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued expenses and income taxes payable. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to payment of fiscal 2016 bonuses, commissions, and other incentive plans in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. We also made a semi-annual interest payment associated with our senior notes during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . These reductions were partially offset by additional interest accruals made during the period. Income taxes payable decreased primarily due to the completion of certain income tax audits and taxes paid, offset in part by increases to the tax provision for the three months ended March 3, 2017 . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $338.9 million for the three months ended March 3, 2017 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments and our acquisition of TubeMogul. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 3, 2017 represented purchases of property and equipment and purchases of long-term investments and other assets. These cash outflows were offset in part by sales and maturities of short-term investments. 38 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $331.5 million was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2017 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Our intent is to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. On March 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries. On March 1, 2013, we exercised our option under the Credit Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement by one year to March 2, 2018. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. As of March 3, 2017 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of March 3, 2017 , the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.9 billion , consisting of $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 . Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate bonds and commercial paper, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 65% of our consolidated invested balances during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . Subsequent to March 3, 2017 , we exercised our option to purchase the Almaden Tower for a total purchase price of $103.6 million . Upon purchase, our investment in the lease receivable of $80.4 million was credited against the total purchase price. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. Our Board of Directors has approved our stock repurchase program wherein we were granted authority to repurchase common stock up to a specified amount and period. In fiscal 2015, the Board of Directors approved our current stock repurchase authority to repurchase up to $2 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2017. Subsequent to March 3, 2017 , as part of this $2 billion stock repurchase authority, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $300 million . This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upon completion of the $300 million stock repurchase agreement, there will be no remaining amount under the $2 billion authority. 39 Table of Contents In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase authority to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2019. During the three months ended March 3, 2017 and March 4, 2016 , we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $200 million and $150 million , respectively. The prepayment of $200 million during the three months ended March 3, 2017 and the prepayment of $150 million during the three months ended March 4, 2016 were under the $2 billion authority granted in fiscal 2015. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 3, 2017 , we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares at an average price of $107.54 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2016 and the three months ended March 3, 2017 . During the three months ended March 4, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 1.5 million shares at an average price of $88.67 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2015 and the three months ended March 4, 2016 . For the three months ended March 3, 2017 , the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by March 3, 2017 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of March 3, 2017 , $62.5 million of prepayment remained under this agreement. Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 3, 2017 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of March 3, 2017 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 3, 2017 . See Notes 11 and 12 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments. Purchase Obligations The following table updates our purchase obligations as of March 3, 2017 (in millions). Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Purchase obligations $ 300.0 $ 20.0 $ 60.0 $ 220.0 $ Senior Notes Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 3, 2017 , our maximum commitment for interest payments was $388.3 million for the remaining duration of our senior notes. Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of March 3, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of our covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 40 Table of Contents Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited, however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.