ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth and market opportunities, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2011. When used in this report, the words expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of software and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force, and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We also distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators, independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. We offer some of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model (also known as a hosted model or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. Our software runs on personal computers (PCs) and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we modified our segments due to changes in how we operate our business. We combined our Creative and Interactive Solutions segment with our Digital Media Solutions segment and our Knowledge Worker segment, and named it Digital Media. We also renamed our Omniture segment to Digital Marketing and combined it with our Enterprise segment. These changes reflect our focus on our two strategic growth opportunities. Our Print and Publishing segment, which contains many of our mature products and solutions, continues to be reported as it was in fiscal 2011. See Note 15 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Prior year information has been updated to reflect these changes. For our first quarter of fiscal 2012, we reported solid financial results and executed against our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Marketing, while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. Our Digital Media segment revenue decreased 4% year-over-year during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . The decrease was primarily due to a slowdown in our Creative business as customers appear to be delaying purchasing in anticipation of our upcoming Creative Suite 6 (CS6) launch. Revenue in our Digital Marketing segment increased 22% year-over-year during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . Driving this success was continued adoption of our Digital Marketing Suite which includes our CQ Web Experience Management (WEM) offerings, coupled with revenue generated from products associated with our recent acquisition of Efficient Frontier. Our Print and Publishing business segment revenue increased 2% year-over-year during the three months ended March 2, 2012 , primarily due to fees received for consulting services and royalties related to PostScript products. 26 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, business combinations, goodwill impairment and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 2, 2012 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 2, 2011 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective There have been no new accounting pronouncements not yet effective that have significance, or potential significance, to our consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Product $ 808.5 $ 842.7 (4 )% Percentage of total revenue 77 % 82 % Subscription 146.2 106.2 38 % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 10 % Services and support 90.5 78.8 15 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 8 % Total revenue $ 1,045.2 $ 1,027.7 2 % As described in Note 15 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , we have the following segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our hosted service offerings including our hosted online business optimization services. We recognize subscription revenues ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. We expect our subscription revenue will continue to increase as a result of our investments in new SaaS and subscription models that will allow us to target new users, as well as increase the amount of recurring revenue we generate as a percent of our total revenuecreating the potential for our results to be more predictable. Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise, developer and platform products and the sale of our hosted online business optimization services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. 27 Table of Contents Segment Information (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Digital Media $ 730.3 $ 761.1 (4 )% Percentage of total revenue 70 % 74 % Digital Marketing 259.9 212.9 22 % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 21 % Print and Publishing 55.0 53.7 2 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Total revenue $ 1,045.2 $ 1,027.7 2 % Revenue from Digital Media decreased $30.8 million during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 primarily due to a slowdown in demand for our Creative Suite family of products as customers appear to be delaying purchasing in anticipation of our upcoming CS6 launch. The year-over-year decrease in revenue was also driven by a shift in product mix to the lower priced Creative Suite product offerings and a decline in Photoshop point product revenue due to no recent releases of Photoshop and Photoshop Extended since fiscal 2010. These decreases were offset in part by an increase in revenue associated with third-party toolbar distribution via Flash Player downloads. Within Digital Media, Document Services revenue which includes our Acrobat product family remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 . Despite an overall decline in the number of units licensed for both Creative and Acrobat within Document Services during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year, unit average selling prices remained relatively stable for both offerings. Revenue from Digital Marketing increased $47.0 million year-over-year during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . The increase during the three months ended March 2, 2012 was primarily due to continued adoption of our Digital Marketing Suite. Revenue generated from products associated with our recent acquisition of Efficient Frontier as well as our Adobe Connect hosted offering also contributed to the increase. Revenue from Print and Publishing increased $1.3 million during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 . The increase was primarily due to fees received for consulting services and royalties related to PostScript products, offset in part by the timing of product releases for ColdFusion and Adobe Captivate resulting in a decline in revenue. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Americas $ 503.1 $ 489.6 3 % Percentage of total revenue 48 % 48 % EMEA 330.7 331.8 * Percentage of total revenue 32 % 32 % Asia 211.4 206.3 2 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 20 % Total revenue $ 1,045.2 $ 1,027.7 2 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Overall revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 increased in the Americas and Asia and remained relatively flat in EMEA. Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing contributed to the increase in revenue in each geographic region, while the decline in Digital Media segment revenue negatively impacted all geographic regions. Within each geographical region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted above. Included in the overall increase in revenue for the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below. 28 Table of Contents (in millions) 2012 Revenue impact: Increase/ (Decrease) EMEA: Euro $ (2.4 ) British Pound 0.7 Other currencies 0.2 Total EMEA (1.5 ) Japanese Yen 7.0 Other currencies 2.2 Total revenue impact 7.7 Hedging impact: EMEA 10.2 Japanese Yen 0.1 Total hedging impact 10.3 Total impact $ 18.0 During the three months ended March 2, 2012 , the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Euro causing revenue in EMEA measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents to decrease compared with the same reporting period last year. This decrease was offset in part by the favorable impact to the British Pound as the U.S. Dollar weakened against this currency causing revenue in EMEA measured in average U.S. Dollar equivalents to increase compared with the same reporting period last year. Revenue measured in both the Japanese Yen and other currencies were favorably impacted as the U.S. Dollar weakened against these currencies. Our EMEA and Yen currency hedging programs resulted in hedging gains during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as noted in the table above. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Product $ 25.7 $ 30.7 (16 )% Percentage of total revenue 2 % 3 % Subscription 48.8 47.9 2 % Percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Services and support 33.8 29.0 17 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Total cost of revenue $ 108.3 $ 107.6 1 % Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue decreased due to the following: % Change 2012-2011 QTD Royalty cost (7 )% Localization costs related to our product launches (6 ) Cost of sales (3 ) Total change (16 )% Royalty costs decreased during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 due to a decrease in obligations to certain key vendors. 29 Table of Contents Localization costs decreased during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months March 4, 2011 primarily due to Acrobat X products that were fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2011 and Creative Suite 5 professional products that were fully amortized at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011. This decrease was offset in part by the launch of Creative Suite 5.5 products during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Cost of sales decreased during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months March 4, 2011 primarily due to a decrease in shrink-wrap revenue from our Creative Suite products. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third-parties for the use of their data center facilities and our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third-parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits driven by additional headcount from our acquisition of Efficient Frontier as well as higher data center costs associated with our fiscal 2011 acquisitions. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 primarily due to increases in compensation and related benefits and additional headcount. Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Research and development $ 177.7 $ 178.4 * Percentage of total revenue 17 % 17 % Sales and marketing 359.0 328.1 9 % Percentage of total revenue 34 % 32 % General and administrative 102.7 101.0 2 % Percentage of total revenue 10 % 10 % Restructuring charges (2.8 ) ** Percentage of total revenue * * Amortization of purchased intangibles 11.4 10.2 12 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 648.0 $ 617.7 5 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses remained relatively stable during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to March 4, 2011 . We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our application, tool and service offerings. 30 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: % Change 2012-2011 QTD Marketing spending related to product launches and overall marketing efforts to further increase revenue 3 % Professional and consulting fees 3 Compensation associated with incentive compensation and stock-based compensation 2 Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 1 Total change 9 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: % Change 2012-2011 QTD Compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth 2 % Professional and consulting fees (1 ) Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 2 % Restructuring Charges During the past several years, we have initiated various restructuring plans. In connection with our Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan and Other Restructuring Plans, we recorded $11.3 million during the three months ended March 2, 2012 associated with termination benefits and closing redundant facilities. We also recorded net favorable employee termination and facility related adjustments of $14.1 million for changes in previous estimates during three months ended March 2, 2012 . During the three months ended March 4, 2011 we recorded insignificant charges for termination benefits and facilities-related liabilities. See Note 9 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our restructuring plans. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Amortization expense increased 12% during the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 . The increase was primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Efficient Frontier in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as well as our fiscal 2011 acquisitions. 31 Table of Contents Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ (2.8 ) $ (0.8 ) 250 % Percentage of total revenue * * Interest expense (16.8 ) (17.0 ) (1 )% Percentage of total revenue (2 )% (2 )% Investment gains (losses), net 1.0 1.6 (38 )% Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (18.6 ) $ (16.2 ) 15 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes foreign exchange gains and losses, including those from hedging revenue transactions primarily denominated in Euro and Yen currencies, and gains and losses on fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 increased, in net expense, primarily due to increased foreign exchange losses. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest associated with our senior notes. Interest expense during the three months ended March 2, 2012 remained relatively stable as compared to the three and ended March 4, 2011 . Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities, unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities) and gains and losses associated with our direct investments in privately held companies. Our net investment gains for the three months ended March 2, 2012 were primarily due to unrealized gains on our deferred compensation plan assets. Our net investment gains for the three months ended March 4, 2011 were due to gains from our direct and equity investments. Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 (dollars in millions) 2012 2011 % Change Provision $ 85.2 $ 51.5 65 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 5 % Effective tax rate 31.5 % 18.0 % Our effective tax rate increased by approximately 14 percentage points for the three months ended March 2, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 4, 2011 . The increase was primarily due to the one-time tax costs associated with licensing acquired company assets to Adobes trading companies. This increase was partially offset by tax benefits recognized as a result of the completion of certain income tax examinations. In addition, the effective tax rate in fiscal 2011 included tax benefits related to the federal research and development credit as well as the credit's retroactive reinstatement in December 2010. This credit expired on December 31, 2011. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. In addition to providing for U.S. income taxes on earnings from the U.S., we provide for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. While we do not anticipate changing our intention regarding permanently reinvested earnings, if certain foreign earnings previously treated as permanently reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. Currently, there are a significant amount of foreign earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. 32 Table of Contents Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 2, 2012 was $156.2 million , exclusive of interest and penalties. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 2, 2012 were recognized in the future, $145.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease the effective tax rate, which is net of an estimated $11.2 million federal benefit related to deducting certain payments on future state tax returns. As of March 2, 2012 , the combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was approximately $11.5 million . This amount is included in non-current income taxes payable. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $15 million . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of (in millions) March 2, 2012 December 2, 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 801.3 $ 989.5 Short-term investments $ 1,964.9 $ 1,922.2 Working capital $ 2,390.6 $ 2,520.7 Stockholders equity $ 5,986.3 $ 5,783.1 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 2, 2012 March 4, 2011 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 314.4 $ 332.1 Net cash used for investing activities (437.7 ) (95.1 ) Net cash used for financing activities (68.5 ) (86.5 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 3.6 (0.2 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (188.2 ) $ 150.3 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of product revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from the exercise of employee options and participation in the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). Another use of cash is our stock repurchase program, which is described below. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $314.4 million for the three months ended March 2, 2012 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with decreases in trade receivables. Trade receivables declined primarily from a decrease in revenue from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase in revenue linearity within the current quarter and improved collections in our international portfolio. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued expenses, trade payables and accrued restructuring. Decreases in accrued expenses primarily related to payment of fiscal 2011 bonuses, commissions and other incentive plans during the first months of fiscal 2012. During the three months ended March 2, 2012 , we also made our semi-annual interest payment associated with our Notes totaling $ 31.1 million . Trade payables decreased primarily due to lower expense levels as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. The decrease in accrued restructuring primarily related to payments and adjustments for employee terminations and facility exit costs associated with the Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan which were paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. See Note 9 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our restructuring charges. 33 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $437.7 million for the three months ended March 2, 2012 was primarily due to our acquisition of Efficient Frontier. Other uses of cash during the three months ended March 2, 2012 represented purchases of property and equipment and short-term investments, offset in part by sales and maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $68.5 million for the three months ended March 2, 2012 was primarily due to treasury stock repurchases offset in part by proceeds from our treasury stock issuances. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Restructuring During the past several years, we have initiated various restructuring plans. Currently, we have the following four active restructuring plans that were of significance to us: Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan Omniture Restructuring Plan As of March 2, 2012 , we have accrued total restructuring charges of approximately $49.2 million of which approximately $25.1 million relates to ongoing termination benefits and contract terminations and are expected to be paid through the remainder of fiscal 2012. The remaining accrual of $24.1 million relates to the cost of closing redundant facilities and are expected to be paid under contract through fiscal 2021 of which approximately 75% will be paid through 2015. During the three months ended March 2, 2012 , we made payments related to the above restructuring plans totaling approximately $36.2 million which principally consisted of approximately $34.3 million in payments related to termination benefits. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the cash outlays for the restructuring actions described above. See Note 9 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding our restructuring plans. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2012 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Our intent is to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States and if U.S. tax has not already been previously provided, we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. As of March 2, 2012 , the amount outstanding under the Notes was $1.5 billion . On March 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries. As of March 2, 2012, there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1.0 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement, we have terminated and paid off all obligations under our previous credit agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007. 34 Table of Contents We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. External investment firms managed, on average, 76% of our consolidated invested balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 . The fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in corporate bonds and commercial paper, foreign government securities, money market mutual funds and repurchase agreements, municipal securities, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities. Stock Repurchase Program We currently have authority granted by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to $1.6 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2012. During the three months ended March 2, 2012 and March 4, 2011 , we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution, whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $80.0 million and $125.0 million , respectively. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 2, 2012 , we repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares at an average price of $30.07 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . During the three months ended March 4, 2011 , we repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares at an average price of $32.84 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during the three months ended March 4, 2011 . Subsequent to March 2, 2012 , as part of our $1.6 billion stock repurchase program, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $225.0 million . This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon completion of the $225.0 million stock repurchase agreement, there is no remaining balance under our current authority, although the Board of Directors could grant additional authority in the future. See Note 10 and Note 16 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our stock repurchase program. Refer to Part II, Item 2 in this report for share repurchases during the quarter ended March 2, 2012 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 2, 2011 . Our principal commitments as of March 2, 2012 consist of obligations under operating leases, capital leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. There have been no significant changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 2, 2012 . See Notes 12 and 13 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. Notes Interest on our Notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 2, 2012 , our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $400.5 million for the remaining duration of the Notes. Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. Our Almaden Tower lease includes certain financial ratios as defined in the lease agreements that are reported to the lessors quarterly. As of March 2, 2012 , we were in compliance with all of our covenants. Our Notes do not contain any financial covenants. We believe these covenants will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Under the terms of our credit agreement and lease agreements, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. 35 Table of Contents Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal.