ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition and retention, the amount of annualized recurring revenue, revenue growth and the anticipated impact on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2020. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals including photographers, video editors, designers and developers; communicators including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators (SIs), independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2021, we experienced strong demand across our Digital Media offerings consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans with respect to this segment. In our Digital Experience segment, we continued to experience growth in software-based subscription revenue across our portfolio of offerings. Our first quarter of fiscal 2021 financial results benefited from an extra week in the quarter due to our 52/53 week financial calendar whereby fiscal 2021 is a 53-week year compared with fiscal 2020 which was a 52-week year. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined Advertising Cloud with our previous Publishing segment. This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management. 23 Table of Contents Digital Media In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile apps and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich and immersive content. Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users machines, machine learning and artificial intelligence, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users as a result of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new desktop and mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated mobile apps and cloud-based document services, including Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue, unbilled backlog and remaining performance obligations as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in the current fiscal year are based on currency rates set at the beginning of the year and held constant throughout the year. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $9.12 billion, up from $8.78 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $1.57 billion, up from $1.47 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Total Digital Media ARR grew to $10.69 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021, up from $10.26 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $2.38 billion, up from $1.82 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, representing 31% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $480 million, up from $351 million in the first quarter of fiscal 24 Table of Contents 2020, representing 37% year-over-year growth and reflecting an increase in demand driven by the shift to remote work as well as our continued efforts to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $2.86 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, up from $2.17 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, representing 32% year-over-year growth. These increases were driven by strong net new user growth, reflecting expanded digital engagement. Digital Experience We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. The Adobe Experience Cloud applications, services and platform are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions. In December 2020, we acquired Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, and we began integrating Workfront into our Digital Experience segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Adobe Experience Cloud is focused on delivering solutions for our enterprise customers across the following strategic growth pillars: Customer data and insights . Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey. Our offerings include Adobe Experience Platform, Adobe Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager, Customer Journey Analytics, Real-time Customer Data Platform and Intelligent Services. Content and commerce . Our solutions help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses. Our offerings include Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Target and Adobe Commerce. Customer journey management . Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases. Our offerings include Adobe Campaign, Marketo Engage and Journey Orchestration. Work management. Our work management solution is powered by Workfront, a leading workflow platform. Workfront helps customers orchestrate content creation and campaign workflows across marketing and creative teams. In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Digital Experience solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers, marketing executives and information management and technology executives. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Digital Experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. Digital Experience revenue for all fiscal years presented has been updated to reflect the Advertising Cloud segment move in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Digital Experience revenue was $934 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, up from $753 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, representing 24% year-over-year growth. Driving this increase was the increase in subscription revenue, which grew to $812 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 from $639 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, representing 27% year-over-year growth. Also contributing to the increase in Digital Experience subscription revenue was revenue associated with Workfronts workflow platform offerings. We expect that the addition of Workfront, and continued demand across our portfolio of Digital Experience solutions, will drive revenue growth in future years. COVID-19 UPDATE In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a disease caused by a novel strain of the coronavirus (COVID-19) to be a pandemic. This pandemic has had widespread, rapidly-evolving and unpredictable impacts on global societies, economies, financial markets and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures in an effort to contain the virus, including physical distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes and closure of non-essential businesses. Our focus remains 25 Table of Contents on promoting employee health and safety, serving our customers and ensuring business continuity. As a result, we have taken action to direct our teams to work from home, suspend travel and replace in-person events with digital events. As the administration of vaccine programs ramps up and cases decline, we continue to evaluate our plans to reopen our facilities and resume business travel for our employees. During the pandemic, digital has become the primary way for people to connect, work, learn and be entertained, and for businesses to engage with customers. This macro trend towards all things digital has increased the importance and relevance of our solutions and accelerated the tailwinds that benefit our business, which contributed to our continued growth year over year. However, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the duration of the pandemic and the broader implications of the macro-economic recovery on our business remain uncertain. See Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the pandemic on our business. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates on a regular basis. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, business combinations and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, and consequently, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 5, 2021, as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 27, 2020. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 were impacted by an extra week due to our first quarter of fiscal 2021 having 14 weeks as compared to 13 weeks in the year-ago period. Financial Performance Summary Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $10.69 billion as of March 5, 2021 increased by $435 million, or 4%, from $10.26 billion as of November 27, 2020. The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to new user adoption of our Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud offerings. Creative revenue during the three months ended March 5, 2021 of $2.38 billion increased by $561 million, or 31%, compared to the year-ago period. Document Cloud revenue during the three months ended March 5, 2021 of $480 million increased by $129 million, or 37%, compared to the year-ago period. The increases were primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings. Digital Experience revenue of $934 million during the three months ended March 5, 2021 increased by $181 million, or 24%, compared to the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings, including from our Workfront acquisition. Remaining performance obligations of $11.61 billion as of March 5, 2021 increased by $272 million, or 2%, from $11.34 billion as of November 27, 2020 primarily due to impacts from our acquisition of Workfront. 26 Table of Contents Cost of revenue of $447 million during the three months ended March 5, 2021 decreased slightly by $5 million, or 1%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to decreases in Advertising Cloud media costs, offset in large part by increases in hosting services and data center costs. Operating expenses of $2.00 billion during the three months ended March 5, 2021 increased by $302 million, or 18%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to increases in base and incentive compensation and related benefits costs, as well as increased marketing spend. Net income of $1.26 billion during the three months ended March 5, 2021 increased by $306 million, or 32%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to increases in revenue, offset in part by increases in operating expenses and the provision for income taxes. Cash flows from operations of $1.77 billion during the three months ended March 5, 2021 increased by $447 million, or 34%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to higher net income adjusted for the net effect of non-cash items. Presentation Changes In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined our Advertising Cloud offerings with our previous Publishing segment. This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management. Further, we reclassified revenue and related cost of revenue of our Advertising Cloud offerings from subscription to services and other on our condensed consolidated statements of income. Financial information for all periods presented has been updated to reflect these reclassifications. Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Subscription $ 3,584 $ 2,732 31 % Percentage of total revenue 92 % 88 % Product 155 143 8 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 5 % Services and other 166 216 (23) % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 7 % Total revenue $ 3,905 $ 3,091 26 % Subscription Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings, and related support, including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services. We primarily recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of service. Subscription revenue related to certain offerings, where fees are based on a number of transactions and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are recognized on a usage basis. We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 is as follows: (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Digital Media $ 2,731 $ 2,058 33 % Digital Experience 812 639 27 % Publishing and Advertising 41 35 17 % Total subscription revenue $ 3,584 $ 2,732 31 % 27 Table of Contents Product Our product revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to licenses for on-premise software purchased on a perpetual basis, for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements. We primarily recognize product revenue at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Services and Other Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support and our advertising offerings. We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis. These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts. Training revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers, partners and developers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Transaction-based advertising revenue is recognized on a usage basis as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Digital Media $ 2,859 $ 2,169 32 % Percentage of total revenue 73 % 70 % Digital Experience 934 753 24 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 24 % Publishing and Advertising 112 169 (34) % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 6 % Total revenue $ 3,905 $ 3,091 26 % Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $690 million during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative and Document Cloud subscription offerings due to continued demand amid an increasingly digital environment. Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $181 million during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to increases in subscription revenue across our offerings, including from our Workfront acquisition. Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Americas $ 2,224 $ 1,797 24 % Percentage of total revenue 57 % 58 % EMEA 1,052 817 29 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 27 % APAC 629 477 32 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 15 % Total revenue $ 3,905 $ 3,091 26 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 5, 2021 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to increases in Digital Media and Digital Experience revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. 28 Table of Contents Included in the overall change in revenue for the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 were impacts associated with foreign currency which were mitigated in part by our foreign currency hedging program. During the three months ended March 5, 2021, the U.S. Dollar primarily weakened against EMEA and APAC currencies as compared to the year-ago period, which increased revenue in U.S. Dollar equivalents by $62 million. For the three months ended March 5, 2021, the foreign currency impact to revenue was offset in part by net hedging losses from our cash flow hedging program of $11 million. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Subscription $ 324 $ 274 18 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 9 % Product 10 7 43 % Percentage of total revenue * * Services and other 113 171 (34) % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 6 % Total cost of revenue $ 447 $ 452 (1) % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party hosting services and data center costs, royalty fees and other expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 due to the following: Components of % Change Hosting services and data center costs 14 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 8 Depreciation expense (4) Software licenses 2 Amortization of intangibles (2) Total change 18 % Product Cost of product revenue is primarily comprised of third-party royalties, amortization related to purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology, excess and obsolete inventory, localization costs and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Services and Other Cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related and other associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and other also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our transaction-based Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings, which we began to discontinue in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Cost of services and other revenue decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to decreases in media costs associated with the discontinuation of our transaction-based Advertising Cloud offerings. 29 Table of Contents Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Research and development $ 620 $ 532 17 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 17 % Sales and marketing 1,049 857 22 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 28 % General and administrative 290 271 7 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 9 % Amortization of intangibles 45 42 7 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 2,004 $ 1,702 18 % Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, third party fees for hosting services, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to the following: Components of % Change Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 14 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Total change 17 % We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to the following: Components of % Change Marketing spend related to campaigns, events and overall marketing efforts 13 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 7 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Travel (3) Transaction fees 2 Total change 22 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with 30 Table of Contents computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to the following: Components of % Change Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 16 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Charges related to cancellation of corporate events, net of recoveries (12) Professional and consulting fees (5) Charitable contributions 4 Facilities 2 Various individually insignificant items (1) Total change 7 % We recorded higher net charges related to the cancellation of our corporate events during the three months ended February 28, 2020 as compared to the current period due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Professional and consulting fees decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the year-ago period primarily due to lower legal fees. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization expenses increased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020, primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Workfront. The increase in amortization expense is offset in part by certain intangible assets from previous acquisitions, including Marketo and Omniture, becoming fully amortized in fiscal 2020. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Interest expense $ (30) $ (33) (9) % Percentage of total revenue (1) % (1) % Investment gains (losses), net 5 (3) ** Percentage of total revenue * * Other income (expense), net 4 18 ** Percentage of total revenue * 1 % Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (21) $ (18) ** _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest associated with our debt instruments. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Interest expense decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020 primarily due to lower average interest rates on our debt instruments that were refinanced in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. See Note 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our debt instruments. 31 Table of Contents Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Other income (expense), net also includes realized gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense), net decreased during the three months ended March 5, 2021 as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020, primarily due to decreases in interest income driven by lower average interest rates. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2021 2020 % Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 172 $ (36) ** Percentage of total revenue 4 % (1) % Effective tax rate 12 % (4) % _________________________________________ (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Our effective tax rate increased by approximately 16 percentage points for the three months ended March 5, 2021, as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2020, primarily due to lower tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and a change in geographic mix of international income as a result of the change in our corporate tax trading structure completed during fiscal 2020. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 5, 2021 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we considered all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, forecasted earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. On the basis of this evaluation, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount realizable. The total valuation allowance was $288 million as of March 5, 2021 and is primarily attributable to certain state credits and foreign intangible assets. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. The current U.S. tax law provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries, including certain earnings that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. In the current global tax policy environment, the U.S. Treasury and other domestic and foreign governing bodies continue to consider, and in some cases introduce, changes in regulations applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. As regulations are issued, we account for finalized regulations in the period of enactment. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $244 million and $163 million as of March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020, respectively. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020 were recognized, $179 million and $107 million would decrease the respective effective tax rates. As of March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020, the combined amounts of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $23 million for both periods. These amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable in their respective years. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet 32 Table of Contents classification of our tax assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $15 million over the next 12 months. In addition, in countries where we conduct business and in jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax, including those covered by governing bodies that enact tax laws applicable to us, such as the European Commission of the European Union, we are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. These countries, other governmental bodies and intergovernmental economic organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in such jurisdictions. In the current global tax policy environment, any changes in laws, regulations and interpretations related to these assertions could adversely affect our effective tax rates, cause us to respond by making changes to our business structure, or result in other costs to us which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Moreover, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices, application of tax rules and other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. We cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of (in millions) March 5, 2021 November 27, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,452 $ 4,478 Short-term investments $ 1,511 $ 1,514 Working capital $ 1,578 $ 2,634 Stockholders equity $ 13,546 $ 13,264 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 5, 2021 February 28, 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,772 $ 1,325 Net cash used for investing activities (1,558) (48) Net cash used for financing activities (1,244) (1,233) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 4 (6) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,026) $ 38 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. The primary uses of cash are our stock repurchase program as described below, payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other uses of cash include business acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment and payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $1.77 billion for the three months ended March 5, 2021 was primarily comprised of net income adjusted for the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income together with increases in deferred revenue driven by Digital Experience offerings. The primary working capital uses of cash were due to increases in prepaid expenses and other assets together with decreases in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increases in prepaid expenses and other assets were driven by sales commissions paid and capitalized and increases in prepaid payroll related to employee benefits. The decreases in accrued expenses and other liabilities were largely driven by a decrease in accrued bonuses. 33 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $1.56 billion for the three months ended March 5, 2021 was primarily due to our acquisition of Workfront and ongoing capital expenditures. See N ote 3 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our acquisition of Workfront. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $1.24 billion for the three months ended March 5, 2021 was primarily due to payments for our common stock repurchases and taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were offset in part by proceeds from re-issuance of treasury stock for our employee stock purchase plan. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program below. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2021 due to changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the pandemic and other risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of March 5, 2021 consisted of asset backed securities, corporate debt securities, money market mutual funds, municipal securities, foreign government securities and time deposits. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. We have a $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of lenders, providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries through October 17, 2023. As of March 5, 2021, there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of March 5, 2021, we have $4.15 billion senior notes outstanding. The senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. See Note 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our debt. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff, and facilities expansion. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In May 2018, our Board of Directors granted us an authority to repurchase up to $8 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2021. In December 2020, our Board of Directors granted us additional authority to repurchase up to $15 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2024. During the three months ended March 5, 2021 and February 28, 2020, we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $950 million and $850 million, respectively. During the three months ended March 5, 2021, we repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares at an average price of $478.14 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2020 and the three months ended March 5, 2021. During the three months ended February 28, 2020, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares at an average price of $332.59 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2019 and the three months ended February 28, 2020. As of March 5, 2021, $317 million of prepayment remained under our outstanding structured stock repurchase agreement. 34 Table of Contents Subsequent to March 5, 2021, as part of the May 2018 stock repurchase authority, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $1 billion. Upon completion of the $1 billion stock repurchase agreement, $100 million remains under our May 2018 authority. We have not drawn from our new $15 billion authority as of the issuance of these financial statements. See Note 11 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our stock repurchase program. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of March 5, 2021 consist of our senior notes and obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. There have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 5, 2021. See Notes 13 and 14 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments . Senior Notes As of March 5, 2021, the carrying value of our senior notes was $4.12 billion. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. At March 5, 2021, our maximum commitment for interest payments was $564 million for the remaining duration of our outstanding senior notes. Covenants As of March 5, 2021, we were in compliance with all covenants. Our Revolving Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. We believe this covenant will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our Revolving Credit Agreement, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or if one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Transition Taxes Liability Our transition tax liability which was accrued as a result of the U.S. Tax Act was approximately $390 million as of March 5, 2021 and is payable in installments through fiscal 2026. The U.S. Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries, including certain earnings that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes See Results of Operations, Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes above for our discussion on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been material and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. 35 Table of Contents