ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition, the amount of recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2017. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and certain local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), systems integrators (SIs), independent software vendors (ISVs), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. OPERATIONS OVERVIEW For our first quarter of fiscal 2018 , we reported strong financial results consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans for our two strategic growth areas, Digital Media and Digital Experience (formerly Digital Marketing), while continuing to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions. In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering for creating and publishing content and applications. Creative Cloud delivers value through frequent product updates, storage and access to user files stored in the cloud with syncing of files across users machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users on account of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. 27 Table of Contents We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (ETLAs), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Adobe Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated cloud-based document services, including Adobe Sign. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC, with a touch-enabled user interface, is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in fiscal 2018 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2018 and held constant throughout the year. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Digital Publishing Suite Contract Value + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Document Cloud ARR Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Digital Media ARR Creative ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.07 billion , up from $4.77 billion at the end of fiscal 2017 . Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $647 million , up from $614 million at the end of fiscal 2017 . Total Digital Media ARR grew to $5.72 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , up from $5.39 billion at the end of fiscal 2017 . Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.23 billion , up from $942.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and representing 30% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $231.0 million , up from $195.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as we continue to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $1.46 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , up from $1.14 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and representing 28% year-over-year growth. We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. Our Digital Experience business provides comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. These comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. 28 Table of Contents Our hierarchy of solutions in the Digital Experience segment, available in our Adobe Experience Cloud, consists of the following cloud offerings: Adobe Marketing Cloudprovides an integrated set of solutions to help marketers differentiate their brands and engage their customers, helping businesses manage, personalize, and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys; includes Adobe Experience Manager (AEM), Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target, Adobe Social and Adobe Primetime. Adobe Analytics Cloudenables businesses to move from insights to actions in real time by uniquely integrating audiences as the core system of intelligence for the enterprise; makes data available across all Adobe clouds through the capture, aggregation, rationalization and understanding of vast amounts of disparate data and then translating that data into singular customer profiles; includes Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager. Adobe Advertising Clouddelivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across traditional TV and digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens; combines capabilities from Adobe Media Optimizer (AMO) and Adobes acquisition of TubeMogul during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition to chief marketing officers and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, digital marketers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers and marketing executives. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. We achieved record Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $554.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , which represents 16% year-over-year growth. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience segment with the strategic growth opportunity, we moved two legacy enterprise offerings, LiveCycle and Connect, from our Digital Experience segment to our Publishing segment. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 2, 2018 , as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 1, 2017 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. 29 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $5.72 billion as of March 2, 2018 increased by $336 million , or 6% , from $5.39 billion as of December 1, 2017 . The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to strong adoption of our Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud subscription offerings. Creative revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2018 of $1.23 billion increased by $287.3 million , or 30% compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings. Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $554.1 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $76.8 million , or 16% , compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings Our total deferred revenue of $2.57 billion as of March 2, 2018 increased by $77.7 million , or 3% , from $2.49 billion as of December 1, 2017 primarily due to increases in new contracts and the timing of renewals for our Digital Experience hosted service offerings. Cost of revenue of $258.9 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $21.6 million , or 9% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in royalty costs, hosting services and data center costs. Operating expenses of $1.12 billion during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $142.0 million , or 15% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in costs associated with increased headcount, our incentive compensation program and stock-based compensation expense. Net income of $583.1 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $184.6 million , or 46% , compared with the year-ago period primarily due to subscription revenue increases. Net cash flow from operations of $989.6 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $259.2 million , or 35% , compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily due to higher net income. Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Subscription $ 1,793.3 $ 1,383.8 30 % Percentage of total revenue 86 % 82 % Product 171.6 183.4 (6 )% Percentage of total revenue 8 % 11 % Services and support 114.0 114.4 * Percentage of total revenue 6 % 7 % Total revenue $ 2,078.9 $ 1,681.6 24 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. 30 Table of Contents As described in Note 15 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements , we have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 is as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Digital Media $ 1,334.6 $ 1,006.9 33 % Digital Experience 430.9 352.9 22 % Publishing 27.8 24.0 16 % Total subscription revenue $ 1,793.3 $ 1,383.8 30 % Our services and support revenue is comprised of consulting, training and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our enterprise products and the sale of our hosted Adobe Experience Cloud services. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Segment Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Digital Media $ 1,460.5 $ 1,138.1 28 % Percentage of total revenue 70 % 68 % Digital Experience 554.1 477.3 16 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 28 % Publishing 64.3 66.2 (3 )% Percentage of total revenue 3 % 4 % Total revenue $ 2,078.9 $ 1,681.6 24 % Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $322.4 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative offerings. Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetually licensed Creative and stock photography offerings, increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings driven by increases in individual, team and enterprise subscriptions. Adobe Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the year ago period primarily due to increases in Document Cloud subscriptions revenue and Acrobat perpetual revenue. Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $76.8 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue associated with our Marketing Cloud offerings largely due to continued adoption of our AEM offerings and an increase in revenue associated with Adobe Campaign. To a lesser extent, increases in revenue associated with our Analytics Cloud and Advertising Cloud offerings also contributed to the increase in Digital Experience revenue. 31 Table of Contents Geographical Information (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Americas $ 1,170.7 $ 975.8 20 % Percentage of total revenue 56 % 58 % EMEA 587.2 459.1 28 % Percentage of total revenue 28 % 27 % APAC 321.0 246.7 30 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 15 % Total revenue $ 2,078.9 $ 1,681.6 24 % Overall revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased in all geographic regions as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily due to increases in Digital Media and Digital Experience revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Foreign currency impacts to revenue for the three months ended March 2, 2018 are shown below. (in millions) Three Months Revenue impact: Increase/ (Decrease) Euro $ 26.5 British Pound 4.3 Japanese Yen (0.6 ) Other currencies 5.4 Total revenue impact 35.6 Hedging impact: Japanese Yen 1.0 Total impact $ 36.6 During the three months ended March 2, 2018 , the relative weakness of the U.S. Dollar caused revenue in EMEA and other currencies measured in U.S. Dollar equivalents to increase as compared to the year-ago period. Cost of Revenue for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Subscription $ 164.7 $ 141.2 17 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 8 % Product 12.9 14.3 (10 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Services and support 81.3 81.8 (1 )% Percentage of total revenue 4 % 5 % Total cost of revenue $ 258.9 $ 237.3 9 % Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party royalties and expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expenses and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. We enter into contracts with third parties for hosting services and use of data center facilities. Our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our Advertising Cloud offerings. 32 Table of Contents Cost of subscription revenue increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 due to the following: % Change 2018-2017 QTD Hosting services and data center costs 5 Royalty costs 5 Media costs 4 Incentive compensation, cash and stock based 4 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 1 Various individually insignificant items (2 ) Total change 17 % Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third-party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs, purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of product revenue decreased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily due to decreases in royalty costs. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related costs and associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue decreased slightly during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 due to decreases in professional and consulting fees. Operating Expenses for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Research and development $ 348.8 $ 285.1 22 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 17 % Sales and marketing 581.0 520.3 12 % Percentage of total revenue 28 % 31 % General and administrative 170.4 150.8 13 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 9 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 17.1 19.1 (10 )% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 1,117.3 $ 975.3 15 % 33 Table of Contents Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses The increases in research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 were primarily due to increases in base compensation costs and related benefits driven by headcount, accruals for our incentive compensation program and stock-based compensation expense. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, third party fees for hosting services, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 due to the following: % Change 2018-2017 QTD Incentive compensation, cash and stock based 15 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 8 Seminars and events (4 ) Professional and consulting fees 2 Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 22 % The decrease in seminars and events during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 was primarily due to a technical event for our engineers which was held during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 that did not occur during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2018 decreased year over year primarily due to our revenue growing at a faster pace compared with the increase in sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 due to the following: % Change 2018-2017 QTD Incentive compensation, cash and stock based 5 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 4 Various individually insignificant items 3 Total change 12 % 34 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 due to the following: % Change 2018-2017 QTD Incentive compensation, cash and stock based 4 % Professional and consulting fees 3 Charitable contributions 2 Events 2 Depreciation 2 Total change 13 % The increase in charitable contributions during three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 was primarily due to the timing of planned contributions to the Adobe Foundation. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 16.7 $ 7.2 ** Percentage of total revenue 1 % * Interest expense (19.9 ) (18.1 ) 10 % Percentage of total revenue (1 )% (1 )% Investment gains (losses), net 3.0 2.5 20 % Percentage of total revenue * * Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (0.2 ) $ (8.4 ) ** _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Interest and other income (expense), net also includes gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses other than any gains recorded to revenue from our hedging programs. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily represents interest associated with our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps are paid monthly. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. See Notes 5 and 13 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding our senior notes and interest rate swaps. Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. 35 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes for the Three Months Ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 (dollars in millions) Three Months 2018 2017 % Change Provision $ 119.4 $ 62.2 92 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 4 % Effective tax rate 17 % 14 % Our effective tax rate increased by three percentage points for the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to accounting for the effects of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, our statutory federal corporate tax rate is a blended rate of 22.2%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. We have made provisional estimates of the accounting impacts of certain provisions of the Tax Act. We continue to obtain, analyze and interpret additional guidance issued and will revise our estimates as additional information becomes available. The provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting is finalized, which will occur no later than one year from the enactment date. As part of the adoption of a new territorial tax system applicable to foreign earnings, the Tax Act requires the Company to pay a one-time tax (transition tax) on previously untaxed earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries at a rate of 15.5% on such earnings represented by foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining earnings, in each case reduced by certain foreign tax credits. We recorded a provisional transition tax expense of $118 million on these earnings, which is comprised of $86 million for fiscal year 2018 plus other ancillary effects recorded in the first fiscal quarter, long term income taxes payable of $533 million, and a reduction in our deferred tax liability of $415 million. We intend to elect to pay the federal transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. As part of the adoption of a territorial tax system, the Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. When we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S., the earnings from our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax. See Note 8 for further information regarding the provision for income taxes and impacts related to the Tax Act on our financial statements. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $156.7 million and $152.2 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively. If $110.6 million and $126.4 million were recognized, these would affect our effective tax rates for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively, which were net of the estimated $46.1 million and $25.8 million federal benefit related to taking deductions on certain payments for the respective periods. The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $20.0 million and $17.2 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively. These amounts were included in non-current income taxes payable in their respective years. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $35.0 million. 36 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of (in millions) March 2, 2018 December 1, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,667.0 $ 2,306.1 Short-term investments $ 3,481.0 $ 3,513.7 Working capital $ 3,944.3 $ 3,720.4 Stockholders equity $ 8,634.0 $ 8,459.9 A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended (in millions) March 2, 2018 March 3, 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 989.6 $ 730.4 Net cash used for investing activities (93.7 ) (338.9 ) Net cash used for financing activities (541.3 ) (331.5 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 6.3 (2.4 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 360.9 $ 57.6 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. Other sources of cash are proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. The primary uses of cash are our stock repurchase program as described below, payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other uses of cash include business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $989.6 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items, including an adjustment to the deferred taxes related to the Tax Act. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with an increase in taxes payable, decrease in accounts receivable, and an increase in deferred revenue. The increase in income taxes payable was primarily driven by the provisional transition tax liability recorded pursuant to the Tax Act. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily driven by improved revenue linearity. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increases in Digital Experience hosted services. The primary working capital uses of cash were due to increases in prepaid expenses and decreases in accrued expenses. The increase in prepaid expense was primarily due to an increase in prepaid payroll and employee benefits. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily driven by payments made pursuant to our incentive compensation program. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities of $93.7 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments and property and equipment. These cash outflows were offset in part by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities of $541.3 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily due to payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards and our treasury stock repurchases, offset by proceeds from reissuance of treasury stock. See the section titled Stock Repurchase Program discussed below. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. 37 Table of Contents Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2018 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. As a result of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, all historical undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings were subject to a mandatory one-time transition tax which resulted in a provisional tax liability of $533 million reflected as long term income taxes payable and state taxes of $3 million . Under the Tax Act, the transition tax is payable over eight years beginning in fiscal 2019, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. When we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S., the earnings from our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax. We continue to evaluate the impact of the Tax Act and the future cash needs of our global operations to determine the amount of foreign earnings that is not necessary to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. On March 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries. On March 1, 2013, we exercised our option under the Credit Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement by one year to March 2, 2018. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. As of March 2, 2018 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of March 2, 2018 , the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.9 billion , consisting of $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 . Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In January 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program granting us authority to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2019. The new stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors is similar to our previous stock repurchase programs. During the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 , we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $300 million and $200 million , respectively.We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. During the three months ended March 2, 2018 , we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares at an average price of $185.13 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2017 and the three months ended March 2, 2018 . During the three months ended March 3, 2017 we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares at an average price of $107.54 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2016 and the three months ended March 3, 2017 . 38 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 2, 2018 , the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by March 2, 2018 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of March 2, 2018 , $100.3 million of prepayment remained under this agreement. Subsequent to March 2, 2018 , as part of the $2.5 billion stock repurchase authority approved in January 2017, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $700 million . This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upon completion of the $700 million stock repurchase agreement, $900 million remains under our current authority. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of March 2, 2018 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. There have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 2, 2018 . See Notes 12 and 13 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments. Senior Notes Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 2, 2018 , our maximum commitment for interest payments was $313.0 million for the remaining duration of our senior notes. Covenants Our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of March 2, 2018 , we were in compliance with this covenant. We believe this covenant will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the directors or officers lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited, however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.