Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of the Companys relationship with distributors, and its effects on revenue recognition. The Companys customer service and support program includes system installation, system repair, applications engineering support, spare parts inventories, customer training and documentation. The Company has applications engineering and field service personnel located near and sometimes co-located at our customers and includes resources at the corporate headquarters in Fremont, California, at customer locations in Texas, at the Companys subsidiaries in Germany, Japan and the Philippines, at its branch office in Taiwan, and also through third-party agreements in China. The Companys distributors provide applications and field service support in other parts of the world. The Company customarily provides a warranty on its products. The Company offers service contracts on its systems directly and through its subsidiaries, distributors and representatives. The Company believes that maintaining a close relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing engineering support improves customer satisfaction and will provide the Company with a competitive advantage in selling its products to the Companys customers. 8 Table of Contents BACKLOG At May 30, 2025, the Companys backlog was $15.2 million compared with $7.3 million at May 31, 2024. The Companys backlog consists of product orders for which confirmed purchase orders have been received and which are scheduled for shipment within 12 months. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments or development projects, the Companys backlog as of a particular date may not be indicative of net revenues for any succeeding period. RESEARCH AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company historically has devoted a significant portion of its financial resources to research and development programs and expects to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts. For information regarding our research and development expenses during the last three fiscal years, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company conducts ongoing research and development to design new products and to support and enhance existing product lines. Building upon the expertise gained in the development of its existing products, the Company has developed the FOX family of systems for performing test and burn-in of entire processed wafers, and burn-in of devices in singulated die and module form, including the FOX-NP and FOX-CP systems released during fiscal 2019, and the Automated WaferPak Aligner released during fiscal 2023 and the acquisition of the Sonoma, Tahoe and Echo platforms in fiscal 2025. The Company is developing enhancements to wafer level burn-in products and our packaged parts, intended to improve the capability and performance for testing and burn-in of future generation devices and provide the flexibility in a wide variety of applications. MANUFACTURING The Company assembles its products from components and parts manufactured by others, including environmental chambers, power supplies, metal fabrications, printed circuit assemblies, ICs, burn-in sockets, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors and interconnect substrates. The Companys strategy is to use in-house manufacturing only when necessary to protect a proprietary process or when a significant improvement in quality, cost or lead time can be achieved and relies on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components and subassemblies used in its products. Final assembly and testing are performed at the Companys principal manufacturing facility located in Fremont, California. COMPETITION The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment market include price, technical capabilities, quality, flexibility, automation, cost of ownership, reliability, throughput, product availability and customer service. In each of the markets it serves, the Company faces competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. The Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by the Companys competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of the Companys products. The Company has observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect the Companys operating margins and results. The Company believes that to remain competitive it must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand its customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS The Company relies primarily on the technical and creative ability of its personnel, its proprietary software, and trade secrets and copyright protection, rather than on patents, to maintain its competitive position. The Companys proprietary software is copyrighted and licensed to the Companys customers. As of May 30, 2025, the Company held 131 active patents in the United States, Singapore, China, Japan, Korea, and other countries, with expiration date ranges from 2025 to 2045, and had several additional United States patent applications and foreign patent applications pending. 9 Table of Contents The Companys ability to compete successfully is dependent in part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology and information. Although the Company attempts to protect its proprietary technology through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, there can be no assurance that these measures will be adequate or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. Further, there can be no assurance that claims allowed on any patent issued to the Company will be sufficiently broad to protect the Companys technology, that any patent will be issued to the Company from any pending application or that foreign intellectual property laws will protect the Companys intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of the Companys proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that the Companys intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company. Also, there can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources to defend its patents from infringement or claims of invalidity. For a description of the infringement proceedings in China seeking to protect two of the Companys patents, see Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of May 30, 2025, there were no pending claims against the Company regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, the Company may, from time to time, receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against the Company. Such claims could include assertions that the Companys products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggest the Company may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim made in the future will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to the Company, and, if the Company is required or deems it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) Environmental The Company focuses on clean technology such as the electrical vehicle (EV) and power semiconductors market. EV and power semiconductor revenues accounted for 41%, 92%, and 85% of total revenues in fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We engineer our products to be more energy efficient by using more efficient electrical designs and thermally efficient cooling architectures using conductive heat transfer versus convection air cooled methods. Our technology and architectural design allow our products to take up only 5% of the test floor space compared to competitors products. The Company improved its facilities by replacing existing air conditioners and heat exchanger with higher efficiency units that draw less power and produce less wasted energy. Our headquarters facility upgrades include moving to high efficiency lighting, modernizing our electrical power and cooling infrastructure. Social The Company reviews hiring and turnover quarterly and performs annual salary reviews, using independent third-party data, to ensure competitive compensation practices. The Company conducts annual employee surveys to evaluate employee satisfaction. Glassdoor shows the Company at a 4.3 out of 5 rating as a great place to work. The Company provides variable compensation on top of base salary for all employees including an employee profit sharing plan. The Company also provides equity awards including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and participation in an employee stock purchase plan for regular full-time (RFT) employees, located in the U.S. The Company is restricted from issuing stock options or RSUs to non-U.S. employees in certain countries due to local regulations. For those employees who are unable to participate in the Companys equity incentive plan, the Company maintains a stock appreciation bonus program to provide compensation linked to the Companys stock price during a predetermined period. The Company also provides a 401(k) plan for U.S. employees, which includes an employer discretionary matching contribution to eligible compensation. The Company provides recurring training in compliance with State of California regulations including sexual harassment, prevention of violence in the workplace, and safety training. The Company promotes employee engagement through corporate events or activities on a regular basis. The Company provides health care coverage for all RFT employees, life insurance, continuing education assistance, and reimbursement of U.S. employee health club membership. The Company ensures compliance with International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certification and maintains safety training. 10 Table of Contents Governance As the Company pursues future Board recruitment efforts, the Nominating Committee will continue to seek candidates who can contribute a wide range of views and perspectives to the Board. This includes seeking out individuals with a variety of perspectives informed by personal and professional experiences. All employees and Board members sign a Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, and Insider Trading Policy upon hire. All employees are provided with the employee handbook which addresses Sexual Harassment, Confidentiality, and Electronic Use Policy among others. Each of the Companys directors and officers completes a Director and Officer Questionnaire to identify conflicts of interest or areas of concern. The Company also maintains Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees to provide corporate oversight. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES As of May 30, 2025, the Company, including its foreign subsidiaries and one branch office, employed 136 persons collectively, on a regular full-time basis, of whom 38 were engaged in research, development and related engineering, 50 were engaged in manufacturing, 33 were engaged in marketing, sales and customer support and 15 were engaged in general administration, finance and IT functions. In addition, the Company, from time to time, may employ a few contractors, temporary, and part-time employees, particularly to perform customer support and manufacturing. The Companys employees are dispersed across principal offices in the United States, Germany, Taiwan, and the Philippines. In addition, our service and support organization has employees located worldwide, at or near customer facilities, to provide timely customer response. As of May 30, 2025 regular full-time employees were located in the following geographic areas: 102 in United States, 26 in the Philippines, six in Taiwan, and two in Germany. The Companys success is in part dependent on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled workers, who are in high demand. None of the Companys employees are represented by a union and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage due to strike. The Companys management considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company regularly evaluates its ability to attract and retain its employees. The Company has had relatively low turnover rates within its workforce, with 54% of its regular full-time workforce being with the Company for 5 years or more. The Company believes that the investments we make in driving a strong, values-based culture and supporting its employees through programs, development, and competitive pay enhances its organizational capability. The Companys management reviews retention and turnover data, employee communications, performance review status, and compensation and benefits to identify potential issues or opportunities for improvement on a quarterly basis. The Company periodically performs employee surveys to monitor employee satisfaction and the Company follows up with an action planning process to actively respond to employee feedback. BUSINESS SEGMENT DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS The Company operates in one business segment, the designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of advanced test and burn-in products to the semiconductor manufacturing industry in several geographic areas. Selected financial information, including net revenues and property and equipment, net for each of the last three fiscal years, by geographic area is included in Part II, Item 8, Note 11, Revenue and Note 16, Segment Information and certain risks related to such operations are discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, under the heading We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Companys common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol AEHR. The Companys annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports that are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through the Companys website at www.aehr.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In addition, information regarding the Companys code of conduct and ethics and the charters of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees, are available free of charge on the Companys website listed above. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We generate a large portion of our sales from a small number of customers. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, operating results could suffer dramatically. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and contract test and assembly companies accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor equipment. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 77%, 93%, and 97% of our net sales in fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. During fiscal 2025, two customers accounted for approximately 39% and 15% of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2024, two customers accounted for approximately 67% and 17% of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2023, two customers accounted for approximately 79% and 10% of our net sales. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for any of these periods. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. In addition, sales to particular customers may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The concentration of our customer base increases risks related to the financial condition of our customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. If any such customers change their business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, or purchasing behavior, or are parties to consolidation transactions, they may delay, suspend, reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or services and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our net sales is generated by relatively small volume, high value transactions. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales from the sale of a relatively small number of systems with high dollar value. As a result, the loss or deferral of a limited number of system sales could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating results in a particular period. Most customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer with limited penalties, and, therefore, backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. From time to time, cancellations and rescheduling of customer orders have occurred, and delays by our suppliers in providing components or subassemblies to us have caused delays in our shipments of our own products. For example, in the second half of fiscal 2025, global tariff announcements created uncertainty in the global economy that impacted customer demand and orders. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by future cancellations or rescheduling by our customers or other delays in our shipments. In addition, a significant portion of our business is driven by demand for silicon carbide semiconductor devices, which are increasingly used in electric vehicles and related applications. If the growth of the electric vehicle market, or demand for silicon carbide semiconductor devices specifically, does not recover in the near future or experiences a prolonged slowdown, it could materially adversely affect our sales volumes, revenue growth, and overall operating results. For non-standard products where we have not effectively demonstrated the ability to meet specifications in the customer environment, we defer revenue until we have met such customer specifications. Any delay in meeting customer specifications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of net sales typically are realized near the end of each quarter. A delay or reduction in shipments near the end of a particular quarter, due, for example, to unanticipated shipment rescheduling, cancellations or deferrals by customers, customer credit issues, unexpected manufacturing difficulties experienced by us or delays in deliveries by suppliers, could cause net sales in a particular quarter to fall significantly. 12 Table of Contents The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. In each of the markets we serve, we face competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Our FOX wafer-level and singulated die/module test and burn in systems and packaged part burn-in systems face competition from larger systems manufacturers that have significant technological know-how and manufacturing capability. Some users of our systems, such as independent test labs, build their own burn-in systems, while others, particularly large IC manufacturers in Asia, acquire burn-in systems from captive or affiliated suppliers. Our WaferPak products are facing and are expected to face increasing competition. Several companies have developed or are developing full-wafer and single-touchdown probe cards. The Company expects that its DiePak products for burning-in and testing multiple singulated die and small modules face significant competition. The Company believes that several companies have developed or are developing products which are intended to enable test and burn-in of multiple bare die, and small modules. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by our competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. We have observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect our operating margins and results. We believe that to remain competitive we must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand our customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We rely on increasing market acceptance for our FOX and Sonoma systems, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers or maintaining our existing customers. A principal element of our business strategy is to increase our presence in the test equipment market through system sales in our FOX wafer-level burn-in product family and Sonoma packaged parts burn-in solutions. Market acceptance of the FOX and Sonoma systems is subject to a number of risks. Before a customer incorporates the FOX or Sonoma system into a production line, lengthy qualification and correlation tests must be performed. We anticipate that potential customers may be reluctant to change their procedures in order to transfer burn-in and test functions to the FOX or Sonoma system. Initial purchases are expected to be limited to systems used for these qualifications and for engineering studies. Market acceptance of the FOX and Sonoma systems also may be affected by the reluctance of IC manufacturers to rely on relatively small suppliers such as us. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we may encounter reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we begin volume production and initial installations of FOX and Sonoma systems at customer sites. The failure of the FOX or Sonoma system to achieve increased market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We may experience increased costs associated with new product introductions. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we have encountered reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we begin volume production and initial installations of certain products at customer sites. Some of these issues in the past have been related to components and subsystems supplied to us by third parties who have in some cases limited the ability of us to address such issues promptly. This process in the past required and in the future is likely to require us to incur un-reimbursed engineering expenses and to experience larger than anticipated warranty claims which could result in product returns. In the early stages of product development there can be no assurance that we will discover any reliability, design and manufacturing issues or, that if such issues arise, that they can be resolved to the customers satisfaction or that the resolution of such problems will not cause us to incur significant development costs or warranty expenses or to lose significant sales opportunities. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and our ability to remain competitive and enter new markets depends on our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner. The semiconductor equipment industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive and expand into new markets depends in part upon our ability to develop new products and to introduce them at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. We invest significant resources in research and development; however, there is no assurance that these efforts will result in commercially viable products or technologies that satisfy future customer needs. Our success in developing new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance in the field and effective sales and marketing. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both future demand and future technology advancements, which are inherently uncertain. Failure to innovate, delays in product development, or unsuccessful product launches could hinder our ability to enter new markets, negatively impacting our competitive position, revenue growth, and overall financial performance. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, introductions of new and complex products typically involve a period in which design, engineering and reliability issues are identified and addressed by our suppliers and by us. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays can occur between a products introduction and the commencement of the volume production of such product. We have experienced, from time to time, significant delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties with certain product introductions and may experience similar challenges in the future. Our inability to complete new product development, or to manufacture and ship products in time to meet customer requirements would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to cybersecurity threats or incidents. We collect, maintain, and transmit data on information systems. These systems include those owned and maintained by the Company or by third parties. In addition, we use cloud-based enterprise resource planning, ERP, software to manage the business integrating all facets of operations, including manufacturing, finance, and sales and marketing. The data maintained on these systems includes confidential and proprietary information belonging to us, our customers, suppliers, and others. While the Company devotes significant resources to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse, we are exposed to cybersecurity risks. Our systems are subject to computer viruses, data breach, phishing schemes, and other malicious software programs or attacks. We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. Although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, cybersecurity incidents may result in business disruption, loss of data, or unauthorized access to intellectual property which could adversely affect our business. A decrease in customer device failure rates and future changes in semiconductor technologies may result in a decrease in demand for our products. Customer tool utilization is driven by many factors including failure rates of customer devices. Improvements in yield may result in customers decreasing test and burn-in times, or electing to perform sampling rather than 100% burn-in of their devices. Based upon data obtained from our systems customers may revise internal manufacturing processes to decrease failure rates. A decrease in customer quality targets or tool utilization may result in a decrease in demand for our products impacting our business and results of operations. Future improvements in semiconductor design and manufacturing technology may also reduce or eliminate the need for our products. For example, improvements in semiconductor process technology and improvements in conventional test systems, such as reduced cost or increased throughput, may significantly reduce or eliminate the market for one or more of our products. If we are not able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets, it could cause us to lose customers, substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our products and services, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to operate our business in accordance with our business plan, our operating results, business and stock price may be significantly and adversely impacted. We attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised as appropriate, and reviewed by management even more frequently. Our business plan is developed based on a number of factors, many of which require estimates and assumptions, such as our expectations of the economic environment, future business levels, our customers willingness and ability to place orders, lead-times, and future revenue and cash flow. Our budgeted operating expenses, for example, are based in part on our future revenue expectations. However, our ability to achieve our anticipated revenue levels is a function of numerous factors, including the volatile and historically cyclical nature of our primary industry, customer order cancellations, macroeconomic changes, operational matters regarding particular agreements, our ability to manage customer deliveries, the availability of resources for the installation of our products, delays or accelerations by customers in taking deliveries and the acceptance of our products (for products where customer acceptance is required before we can recognize revenue from such sales), our ability to operate our business and sales processes effectively, and a number of the other risk factors as described in this Item 1A. Because our expenses are in most cases relatively fixed in the short term, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, if we fail to manage our expenses effectively or otherwise fail to maintain rigorous cost controls, we could experience greater than anticipated expenses during an operating period, which would also negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to operate our business consistent with our business plan, our operating results in any period may be materially and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could cause customers, suppliers or investors to view us as less stable, or could cause us to fail to meet financial analysts revenue or earnings estimates, any of which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors. In furtherance of those efforts, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment scheduling. Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or stock price. Over the past few years, the Company has increased inventory levels significantly. This decision was driven by previously experienced long lead time in obtaining critical parts and in producing the systems and by higher projected revenues. As a result, if actual revenues do not meet these projections, the Company may face challenges related to excess inventory, including potential write-downs or obsolescence, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products. Although our standard commercial documentation sets forth the terms and conditions that we intend to apply to commercial transactions with our business partners, counterparties to such transactions may not explicitly agree to our terms and conditions. In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them. Such disputes could lead to a deterioration of our commercial relationship with those parties, costly and time-consuming litigation, or additional concessions or obligations being offered by us to resolve such disputes, or could impact our revenue or cost recognition. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third party claims that our products, when used for their intended purposes, infringe the IP rights of such third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. We may be compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations, or we may be subject to potential liability arising from our customers involvements in legal disputes. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions related to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counterparties to such agreements may dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal proceedings. It is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in any particular claim. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. Our products and production processes are extremely complex and, thus, could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced. Unexpected product performance issues could result in significant costs being incurred by us, including increased service or warranty costs, providing product replacements for (or modifications to) defective products, litigation related to defective products, reimbursement for damages caused by our products, product recalls, or product write-offs or disposal costs. These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business. We may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to customer-anticipated process changes, strategic opportunities for growth, and industry technology trends. We may choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products, technologies and/or services instead of developing them ourselves. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, if the costs associated with integrating the acquired business exceeds our expectations, or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. It is possible that the businesses we have acquired may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than anticipated. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks related to the use of artificial intelligence by us and our competitors. We are increasingly incorporating AI capabilities into the development of our technologies. AI technology is complex and rapidly evolving, and may subject us to significant competitive, legal, regulatory and other risks. The implementation of AI can be costly and there is no guarantee that our use of AI will enhance our technologies, benefit our business operations or produce products and services that are preferred by our customers. Our competitors may be more successful in their AI strategy and develop superior products and services with the aid of AI. Additionally, AI algorithms or training methodologies may be flawed, and datasets may contain irrelevant, insufficient or biased information, which can cause errors in outputs. This may give rise to legal liability, damage our reputation and materially harm our business. We may not be able to control the development, maintenance or behavior of third-party AI solutions or how their providers obtain or otherwise process data, and these AI solutions may be used inappropriately or irresponsibly. There is no guarantee that any contractual or other protections we seek to implement will be sufficient to protect us from risks presented by these solutions. Additionally, the use of AI in the development of our products and services, and our customers use of AI in relation to our products and services could also cause loss of intellectual property (IP), as well as subject us to risks, including third-party claims, related to IP infringement or misappropriation, data privacy and cybersecurity. Additionally, concerns over the use of AI for purposes contrary to public interests could impair public acceptance of AI and affect demand for our products and services. Furthermore, the United States and other countries may adopt laws and regulations related to AI. Such new laws and regulations may be interpreted in ways that conflict with or otherwise impact our approach to AI and use of AI solutions, could cause us to incur greater compliance costs and may limit the use of AI in the development of our products and services. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to legal liabilities, damage our reputation, or otherwise have a material and adverse impact on our business. Operational and Other Risks We purchase materials from suppliers worldwide, which subjects the Company to increased risk; tariff uncertainty, trade restrictions, and global supply chain risks could adversely affect our business. We purchase components, sub-assemblies, and chambers from suppliers outside the United States. Increases in tariffs, uncertainty surrounding current and future tariff regulations, additional taxes, rising inflation in the supply chain or new trade barriers may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs. Fluctuations in tariff and trade policies, particularly those that may change without significant notice, create instability in our supply chain and limit our ability to plan for future cost structures. A decrease in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our materials. Should the Company increase its sales prices to recover the increase in costs, this could result in a decrease in the competitiveness of our products. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with purchasing materials from suppliers worldwide. Government authorities may also implement protectionist policies or impose limitations on the transfer of intellectual property. This may limit our ability to obtain products from certain geographic regions and require us to identify and qualify new suppliers. The process of qualifying suppliers could be lengthy, and no assurance can be given that any additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Changes in trade relations, tariff structures, currency fluctuations, or protectionist policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Supply chain issues, including a shortage of critical components or contract manufacturing capacity, could result in a delay in fulfillment of customer orders, or an increase in costs, resulting in an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Our sales growth depends on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. A market shortage of semiconductor and other component supply could affect lead times, the cost of supply, and our ability to meet customer demand for our products. While we have taken steps to obtain an assurance of supply from our key suppliers, the market shortage of semiconductor supply may impact our ability to meet customer order fulfillments, or result in a significant increase in costs of our inventories. Manufacturing issues or capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers could impact our ability to secure sufficient supply of critical components. If there is a market shortage of semiconductor supply, suppliers and contract manufacturers may commit their capacity to others, limiting our supplies or increasing costs. The failure to obtain timely delivery of supplies, or a significant increase in costs, could result in a material impact in our business and results from operations. We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. Approximately 70%, 95%, and 86% of our net sales in fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively, were attributable to sales to customers for delivery outside of the United States. We provide sales and service globally with resources in North America, Taiwan, Germany, Japan, South Korea, and a service organization in the Philippines, as well as direct support through third party agreements in China. We expect that sales of products for delivery outside of the United States will continue to represent a substantial portion of our future sales. Our future performance will depend, in significant part, upon our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets which in turn will depend, in part, upon a continuation of current trade relations between the United States and foreign countries in which semiconductor manufacturers or assemblers have operations. A change toward more protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or such foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with doing business internationally, including longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, difficulty in staffing and managing global operations, risks of civil disturbance or other events which may limit or disrupt markets, international exchange restrictions, changing political conditions and monetary policies of foreign governments. 16 Table of Contents Our net sales for fiscal 2025 were primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, because a substantial portion of our net sales is from sales of products for delivery outside the United States, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our products compared to products sold by local companies in such markets. In addition, since the price is determined at the time a purchase order is accepted, we are exposed to the risks of fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar exchange rate during the lengthy period from the date a purchase order is received until payment is made. This exchange rate risk is partially offset to the extent our foreign operations incur expenses in the local currency. To date, we have not invested in any instruments designed to hedge currency risks. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. Global unrest may impact our ability to sell our products or obtain critical materials. Global economic uncertainty and financial market volatility caused by political instability, changes in international trade relationships and conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the political climate in China and Taiwan, the Israel-Hamas war, the Israel-Iran conflict and the tensions in the Red Sea in connection with the attacks to disrupt shipments may result in limited access to these markets for sales and material purchases. Periods of macroeconomic weakness or recession and heightened market volatility caused by adverse geopolitical developments could increase these risks, potentially resulting in adverse impacts on our business operations. Increased energy costs in Europe, resulting from Russias limiting energy supplies in the region, may result in an economic downturn or an increase in the cost of materials. The on-going decline in relations between the United States and China, and relations between China and Taiwan, may result in the imposition of trade restrictions with China or Taiwan. While we have limited sales in Europe and Taiwan, and procurement from these regions, unrest in these areas may result in a decrease in sales of our products, or an increase in costs of materials and services. Geopolitical tensions and changes in government trade policies could adversely affect our operations in China and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Heightened geopolitical tensions between the United States and China could create barriers to selling our products and services to customers in China as there is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and China with respect to trade policies, treaties, tariffs and taxes. These barriers include increased tariffs and other trade barriers, regulatory restrictions, or limitations on technology transfer. These tariffs, and the related geopolitical uncertainty between the United States and China, may cause decreased demand for our products or increase cost of components used in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, any such developments, including changes in trade policies, export and import restrictions, or diplomatic relations under the current or future administrations, could impact economic activity and lead to a general contraction of customer demand and could adversely affect our ability to compete in the Chinese market, impairing our growth prospects in China. Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis and expose us to intellectual property infringement. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components or subassemblies used in our products. Our FOX systems, WaferPak Contactors, DiePak Carriers, WaferPak Aligners, and DiePak Loaders contain several components, including environmental chambers, power supplies, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors, module contactors, signal distribution substrates, and certain ICs that are currently supplied by only one or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on subcontractors and single source suppliers involves a number of significant risks, including the loss of control over the manufacturing process, the potential absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. In the event that any significant subcontractor or single source supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture subassemblies, components or parts in required volumes, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers could be lengthy, and no assurance can be given that any additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Any delay, interruption or termination of a supplier relationship could adversely affect our ability to deliver products, which would harm our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Our suppliers manufacture components, tooling, and provide engineering services. During this process, our suppliers are allowed access to our intellectual property. While we maintain patents to protect from intellectual property infringement, there can be no assurance that technological information gained in the manufacture of our products will not be used to develop a new product, improve processes or techniques which compete against our products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Tightening of fiscal monetary policy, and periodic economic and semiconductor industry downturns could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial markets, national debt, fiscal or monetary concerns, inflation and interest rates, bank failures, and economic recession, make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for semiconductors and semiconductor capital equipment has historically been cyclical, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. If we do not appropriately manage our business operations in response to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a material and adverse impact on our business performance and financial condition. Our net sales are affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor market, which may have a material adverse impact on our business performance and financial condition. A significant portion of our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers. Capital expenditures by these companies depend upon, among other things, the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and the products that utilize them. Typically, semiconductor manufacturers curtail capital expenditures during periods of economic downturn. Conversely, semiconductor manufacturers increase capital expenditures when market demand requires the addition of new or expanded production capabilities. This cyclicality may have a material adverse impact on our business performance and financial condition. We have been and may in the future be subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement which would be time-consuming, expensive and a distraction from our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our proprietary information to erode our competitive advantage, which could harm our business and operating results. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. For a description of the infringement proceedings in China seeking to protect two of our patents, see Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There are no pending claims against us regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, in the future we may receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against us. Such claims could include assertions that our products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggestions that we may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to us, and, if we are required or deem it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We cannot assure that we have complied with all applicable environmental laws, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business as a result of having to pay substantial amounts in damages or fees. Federal, state and local regulations impose various controls on the use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic and other hazardous substances used in our operations. We believe that our activities conform in all material respects to current environmental and land use regulations applicable to our operations and our current facilities, and that we have obtained environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. Nevertheless, failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control the use, disposal or storage of or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities. 18 Table of Contents The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact our business and operating results. We periodically implement new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage our business operations, align our global organizations and enable future growth. Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to our business operations. If we do not successfully implement enterprise resource planning and related information systems improvements, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, we may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. For example, during the two-year period ended May 30, 2025, the price of our common stock has ranged from $6.27 to $54.10. If our future operating results or margins are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price will likely decline. Factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in our operating results, general conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries as well as the worldwide economy, announcement of technological innovations, new systems or product enhancements by us or our competitors, fluctuations in the level of cooperative development funding, acquisitions, changes in governmental regulations, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for small capitalization and high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are exposed to risks associated with shareholder class action lawsuits, which are expensive and could divert management attention. On December 3, 2024, a shareholder class action lawsuit, captioned Lucid Alternative Fund, LP v. Aehr Test Systems, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that we and certain of our executives made false and misleading statements regarding our earnings guidance and other financial projections for 2024. Additionally, two shareholder derivative complaints were filed, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and other misconduct by certain directors and officers of the Company. On May 16, 2025, the court-appointed lead plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the class action lawsuit, and on June 9, 2025, the court dismissed the derivative action without prejudice. While these lawsuits have been resolved without adverse judgments, there is no assurance that we will not face similar litigation in the future. Defending against shareholder class actions or derivative lawsuits can be costly, disruptive, and time-consuming, and may divert the attention of our management and Board of Directors. Such proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could also harm our reputation, impact investor confidence, and result in increased scrutiny of our public disclosures, internal controls, and corporate governance practices. If we are subject to future litigation and do not prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or incur other significant costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risks Related to our Financial/Legal/Organizational Structure We depend on our key personnel and our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Gayn Erickson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other executive officers and key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance for our benefit on any of our personnel, and none of our employees are subject to a non-competition agreement with us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success will depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivating highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. There are a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it has become increasingly difficult for us to hire such personnel. Competition for such personnel in the semiconductor equipment industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, retaining or motivating such personnel. Changes in management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure