Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of the Companys relationship with distributors, and its effects on revenue recognition. The Companys customer service and support program includes system installation, system repair, applications engineering support, spare parts inventories, customer training and documentation. The Company has applications engineering and field service personnel located near and sometimes co-located at our customers and includes resources at the corporate headquarters in Fremont, California, at customer locations in Texas, at the Companys subsidiaries in Germany and Philippines, at its branch office in Taiwan, and also through 3 rd party agreements in China and South Korea. The Companys distributors provide applications and field service support in other parts of the world. The Company customarily provides a warranty on its products. The Company offers service contracts on its systems directly and through its subsidiaries, distributors and representatives. The Company believes that maintaining a close relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing engineering support improves customer satisfaction and will provide the Company with a competitive advantage in selling its products to the Companys customers. BACKLOG At May 31, 2022, the Companys backlog was $11.1 million compared with $1.6 million at May 31, 2021. The Companys backlog consists of product orders for which confirmed purchase orders have been received and which are scheduled for shipment within 12 months. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments or development projects, the Companys backlog as of a particular date may not be indicative of net sales for any succeeding period. RESEARCH AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company historically has devoted a significant portion of its financial resources to research and development programs and expects to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts. Certain research and development expenditures related to non-recurring engineering milestones have been transferred to cost of goods sold, reducing research and development expenses. The Companys research and development expenses during fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $5.8 million, $3.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively. 7 Table of Contents The Company conducts ongoing research and development to design new products and to support and enhance existing product lines. Building upon the expertise gained in the development of its existing products, the Company has developed the FOX family of systems for performing test and burn-in of entire processed wafers, and burn-in of devices in singulated die and module form, including the FOX-NP and FOX-CP systems released during fiscal 2019. The Company is developing enhancements to our packaged parts and wafer level burn-in products, intended to improve the capability and performance for testing and burn-in of future generation devices and provide the flexibility in a wide variety of applications. MANUFACTURING The Company assembles its products from components and parts manufactured by others, including environmental chambers, power supplies, metal fabrications, printed circuit assemblies, ICs, burn-in sockets, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors and interconnect substrates. The Companys strategy is to use in-house manufacturing only when necessary to protect a proprietary process or when a significant improvement in quality, cost or lead time can be achieved and relies on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components and subassemblies used in its products. Final assembly and testing are performed at the Companys principal manufacturing facility located in Fremont, California. COMPETITION The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment market include price, technical capabilities, quality, flexibility, automation, cost of ownership, reliability, throughput, product availability and customer service. In each of the markets it serves, the Company faces competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. The Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by the Companys competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of the Companys products. The Company has observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect the Companys operating margins and results. The Company believes that to remain competitive it must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand its customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS The Company relies primarily on the technical and creative ability of its personnel, its proprietary software, and trade secrets and copyright protection, rather than on patents, to maintain its competitive position. The Companys proprietary software is copyrighted and licensed to the Companys customers. At May 31, 2022, the Company held 56 issued United States patents with expiration date ranges from 2022 to 2038 and had several additional United States patent applications and foreign patent applications pending. The Companys ability to compete successfully is dependent in part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology and information. Although the Company attempts to protect its proprietary technology through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, there can be no assurance that these measures will be adequate or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. Further, there can be no assurance that claims allowed on any patent issued to the Company will be sufficiently broad to protect the Companys technology, that any patent will be issued to the Company from any pending application or that foreign intellectual property laws will protect the Companys intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of the Companys proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that the Companys intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company. Also, there can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources to defend its patents from infringement or claims of invalidity. 8 Table of Contents There are currently no pending claims against the Company regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, the Company may, from time to time, receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against the Company. Such claims could include assertions that the Companys products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggest the Company may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim made in the future will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to the Company, and, if the Company is required or deems it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES As of May 31, 2022, the Company, including its foreign subsidiaries and one branch office, employed 91 persons collectively, on a regular full-time basis, of whom 21 were engaged in research, development and related engineering, 26 were engaged in manufacturing, 35 were engaged in marketing, sales and customer support and 9 were engaged in general administration and finance functions. In addition, the Company from time to time employs a number of contractors, temporary, and part-time employees, particularly to perform customer support and manufacturing. The Companys employees are dispersed across principal offices in the United States, Germany, Taiwan, and Philippines. In addition, our service and support organization has employees located worldwide, at or near customer facilities, to provide timely customer response. As of May 31, 2022 regular full-time employees were located in the following geographic areas: 71 United States, 1 Japan, 4 Taiwan, and 15 in the Philippines. The Companys success is in part dependent on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled workers, who are in high demand. None of the Companys employees are represented by a union and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage. The Companys management considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company regularly evaluates its ability to attract and retain its employees. The Company has had relatively low turnover rates within its workforce, with 52% of its United States regular full-time workforce being with the Company for 5 years or more. The Company believes that the investments we make in driving a strong, values-based culture and supporting its employees through programs, development, and competitive pay enhances its organizational capability. Company management quarterly reviews retention and turnover, employee communications, performance review status, and compensation and benefits to identify potential issues or opportunities. The Company periodically performs employee surveys to monitor employee satisfaction and the Company follows-up with an action planning process to actively respond to employee feedback. The Company has been impacted by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, known as COVID-19, which has spread throughout the world. Our business top priority during the COVID-19 pandemic is protecting the health and safety of our employees and their families, customers and community. We introduced policies and procedures to increase workplace flexibility such as working remotely where possible to reduce the number of people who are on campus each day. As a global supplier of Critical Infrastructure Sectors, as defined by the cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, we have supported and continue to support customers during the pandemic. In the interest of public health, all onsite operations generally use the minimum number of people to safely execute tasks and follow enhanced safety and health protocols including screenings, social distancing, and use of personal protective equipment. BUSINESS SEGMENT DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS The Company operates in a single business segment, the designing, manufacturing and marketing of advanced test and burn-in products to the semiconductor manufacturing industry in several geographic areas. Selected financial information, including net sales and property and equipment, net for each of the last three fiscal years, by geographic area is included in Part II, Item 8, Note 2, Revenue and Note 15, Segment Information and certain risks related to such operations are discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, under the heading We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Companys common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol AEHR. The Companys annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports that are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through the Companys website at www.aehr.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 9 Table of Contents In addition, information regarding the Companys code of conduct and ethics and the charters of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees, are available free of charge on the Companys website listed above. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to our Business and Industry The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have disrupted, and may continue to significantly disrupt, our operations, including our ability to manufacture and supply products and perform research and development activities, and our customers usage of our products, all of which have had and may continue to have a material and adverse effect on our business, future revenues and financial condition. We are unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic and related impacts will continue to adversely impact our business operations, financial performance, results of operations and the achievement of our strategic objectives. Our business, results of operation and financial performance have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health responses, such as shelter-in-place orders, social distancing protocols, and travel restrictions in many of the countries and regions in which we have operations or manufacturing partners. Due to these impacts and measures, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant and unpredictable reductions in the demand for our products. In addition, our customers may delay, cancel or redirect planned capital expenditures in order to focus resources differently during or as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The effects of this outbreak on our business has included and could continue to include disruptions or restrictions on our employees ability to travel in affected regions, as well as temporary closures of the facilities of our suppliers, customers, or other vendors in our supply chain, which could impact our business, interactions and relationships with our customers, third-party suppliers and contractors, and results of operations. Following the COVID-19 outbreak around the world, we had implemented certain travel restrictions, temporarily limited the number of employees permitted onsite in our offices and implemented work-from-home rules. These restrictions have since been removed. However, the future course of COVID-19 remains uncertain and we continue to monitor the situation for potential reinstatement of such restrictions. Such restrictions may cause disruption and delays in our ability to operate and manufacture, test and assemble products in our internal facilities, and limit our ability to continue certain research and development activities which could materially and adversely affect our ability to develop or deliver products on the timelines we currently anticipate. The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets around the world, resulting in economic uncertainty that has affected and will likely continue to affect demand for our products and impact our results of operations. As a result, this may lead to periods of regional, national, and global economic slowdown or regional, national, or global recessions that would curtail or delay spending by semiconductor manufacturers and contract assemblers and affect demand for our products as well as increase the risk of customer defaults or delays in payments. Our customers may delay or cancel orders for our products due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, lack of funding, operational failures, or other reasons. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited, to: governments, business and individuals actions that have been and may continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport and workforce pressures); the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response to global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity; the availability of federal, state, local or non-U.S. funding programs; general economic uncertainty in key global markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Although the magnitude of the continuing impact of COVID-19 on our business operations remains uncertain and difficult to predict, and this remains a highly dynamic situation, we have experienced and will continue to experience in subsequent periods, disruptions to our business that will likely continue to impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We generate a large portion of our sales from a small number of customers. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, operating results could suffer dramatically. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and contract assemblers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor equipment. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 98%, 84%, and 87% of our net sales in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During fiscal 2022, ON Semiconductor accounted for approximately 82% of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2021, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., ON Semiconductor, Intel and Inphi accounted for approximately 24%, 23%, 20% and 10%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2020, Intel, ON Semiconductor and STMicroelectronics, accounted for approximately 43%, 16% and 15%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for any of these periods. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. In addition, sales to particular customers may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The loss of, or reduction or delay of, an order or orders from a significant customer or customers, or a delay in collecting or failure to collect accounts receivable from a significant customer or customers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. In each of the markets we serve, we face competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Our FOX wafer-level and singulated die/module test and burn in systems face competition from larger systems manufacturers that have significant technological know-how and manufacturing capability. Our ABTS TDBI systems have faced and are expected to continue to face increasingly severe competition, especially from several regional, low-cost manufacturers and from systems manufacturers that offer higher power dissipation per device under test. Some users of such systems, such as independent test labs, build their own burn-in systems, while others, particularly large IC manufacturers in Asia, acquire burn-in systems from captive or affiliated suppliers. Our WaferPak products are facing and are expected to face increasing competition. Several companies have developed or are developing full-wafer and single-touchdown probe cards. The Company expects that its DiePak products for burning-in and testing multiple singulated die and small modules face significant competition. The Company believes that several companies have developed or are developing products which are intended to enable test and burn-in of multiple bare die, and small modules. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by our competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. We have observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect our operating margins and results. We believe that to remain competitive we must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand our customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We rely on increasing market acceptance for our FOX system, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers or maintaining our existing customers. A principal element of our business strategy is to increase our presence in the test equipment market through system sales in our FOX wafer-level and singulated die/module test and burn-in product family. Market acceptance of the FOX system is subject to a number of risks. Before a customer will incorporate the FOX system into a production line, lengthy qualification and correlation tests must be performed. We anticipate that potential customers may be reluctant to change their procedures in order to transfer burn-in and test functions to the FOX system. Initial purchases are expected to be limited to systems used for these qualifications and for engineering studies. Market acceptance of the FOX system also may be affected by a reluctance of IC manufacturers to rely on relatively small suppliers such as us. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we may encounter reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we begin volume production and initial installations of FOX systems at customer sites. The failure of the FOX system to achieve increased market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, long-term prospects and our stock price. 11 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our net sales is generated by relatively small volume, high value transactions. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales from the sale of a relatively small number of systems which typically range in purchase price from approximately $300,000 to well over $1 million per system. As a result, the loss or deferral of a limited number of system sales could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating results in a particular period. Most customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer with limited penalties, and, therefore, backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. From time to time, cancellations and rescheduling of customer orders have occurred, and delays by our suppliers in providing components or subassemblies to us have caused delays in our shipments of our own products. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by future cancellations or rescheduling by our customers or other delays in our shipments. For non-standard products where we have not effectively demonstrated the ability to meet specifications in the customer environment, we defer revenue until we have met such customer specifications. Any delay in meeting customer specifications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of net sales typically are realized near the end of each quarter. A delay or reduction in shipments near the end of a particular quarter, due, for example, to unanticipated shipment rescheduling, cancellations or deferrals by customers, customer credit issues, unexpected manufacturing difficulties experienced by us or delays in deliveries by suppliers, could cause net sales in a particular quarter to fall significantly. We may experience increased costs associated with new product introductions. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we have encountered reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we began volume production and initial installations of certain products at customer sites. Some of these issues in the past have been related to components and subsystems supplied to us by third parties who have in some cases limited the ability of us to address such issues promptly. This process in the past required and in the future is likely to require us to incur un-reimbursed engineering expenses and to experience larger than anticipated warranty claims which could result in product returns. In the early stages of product development there can be no assurance that we will discover any reliability, design and manufacturing issues or, that if such issues arise, that they can be resolved to the customers satisfaction or that the resolution of such problems will not cause us to incur significant development costs or warranty expenses or to lose significant sales opportunities. The Company is exposed to cybersecurity threats or incidents. We collect, maintain, and transmit data on information systems. These systems include those owned and maintained by the Company or by third parties. In addition, we use cloud-based enterprise resource planning, ERP, software to manage the business integrating all facets of operations, including manufacturing, finance, and sales and marketing. The data maintained on these systems includes confidential and proprietary information belonging to us, our customers, suppliers, and others. While the Company devotes significant resources to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse, we are exposed to cybersecurity risks. Our systems are subject to computer viruses, data breach, phishing schemes, and other malicious software programs or attacks. We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. Although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, cybersecurity incidents may result in business disruption, loss of data, or unauthorized access to intellectual property which could adversely affect our business. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner. The semiconductor equipment industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part upon our ability to develop new products and to introduce them at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our success in developing new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance in the field and effective sales and marketing. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both future demand and the technology that will be available to supply that demand. Furthermore, introductions of new and complex products typically involve a period in which design, engineering and reliability issues are identified and addressed by our suppliers and by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products that satisfy market demand. Any such failure would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays can occur between a products introduction and the commencement of the volume production of such product. We have experienced, from time to time, significant delays in the introduction of, and technical and manufacturing difficulties with, certain of our products and may experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introductions or volume production of our new products. Our inability to complete new product development, or to manufacture and ship products in time to meet customer requirements would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A decrease in customer device failure rates may result in a decrease in demand for our products. Customer tool utilization is driven by many factors including failure rates of customer devices. Improvements in yield may result in customers decreasing test and burn-in times, or electing to perform sampling rather than 100% burn-in of their devices. Based upon data obtained from our systems customers may revise internal manufacturing processes to decrease failure rates. A decrease in customer tool utilization may result in a decrease in demand for our products impacting our business and results of operations. Future changes in semiconductor technologies may make our products obsolete. Future improvements in semiconductor design and manufacturing technology may reduce or eliminate the need for our products. For example, improvements in semiconductor process technology and improvements in conventional test systems, such as reduced cost or increased throughput, may significantly reduce or eliminate the market for one or more of our products. If we are not able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets, our business may decline. Operational and Other Risks Supply chain issues, including a shortage of critical components or contract manufacturing capacity, could result in a delay in fulfillment of customer orders, or an increase in costs, resulting in an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Our sales growth depends on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. There is currently a market shortage of semiconductor and other component supply which has affected, and could further affect, lead times, the cost of supply, and our ability to meet customer demand for our products. While we have taken steps to obtain an assurance of supply from our key suppliers, the market shortage of semiconductor supply may impact our ability to meet customer order fulfillments, or result in a significant increase in costs of our inventories. Manufacturing issues or capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers could impact our ability to secure sufficient supply of critical components. Due to the market shortage of semiconductor supply, suppliers and contract manufacturers may commit their capacity to others, limiting our supplies or increasing costs. The failure to obtain timely delivery of supplies, or a significant increase in costs, could result in a material impact in our business and results from operations. We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. Approximately 90%, 68%, and 39% of our net sales for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, were attributable to sales to customers for delivery outside of the United States. We operate sales and service in Taiwan, a service organization in Germany and Philippines, as well as direct support through third party agreements in China and South Korea. We expect that sales of products for delivery outside of the United States will continue to represent a substantial portion of our future net sales. Our future performance will depend, in significant part, upon our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets which in turn will depend, in part, upon a continuation of current trade relations between the United States and foreign countries in which semiconductor manufacturers or assemblers have operations. A change toward more protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or such foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with doing business internationally, including longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, difficulty in staffing and managing global operations, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and financial markets, risks of civil disturbance or other events which may limit or disrupt markets, international exchange restrictions, changing political conditions and monetary policies of foreign governments. Our net sales for fiscal 2022 were primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, because a substantial portion of our net sales is from sales of products for delivery outside the United States, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our products compared to products sold by local companies in such markets. In addition, since the price is determined at the time a purchase order is accepted, we are exposed to the risks of fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar exchange rate during the lengthy period from the date a purchase order is received until payment is made. This exchange rate risk is partially offset to the extent our foreign operations incur expenses in the local currency. To date, we have not invested in any instruments designed to hedge currency risks. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. 13 Table of Contents We purchase materials from suppliers worldwide, which subjects the Company to increased risk. We purchase components, sub-assemblies, and chambers from suppliers outside the United States. Increases in tariffs, additional taxes, disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic or trade barriers may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs. A decrease in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our materials. Should the Company increase its sales prices to recover the increase in costs, this could result in a decrease in the competitiveness of our products. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with purchasing materials from suppliers worldwide. Government authorities may also implement protectionist policies or impose limitations on the transfer of intellectual property. This may limit our ability to obtain products from certain geographic regions and require us to identify and qualify new suppliers. The process of qualifying suppliers could be lengthy, and no assurance can be given that any additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Changes in trade relations, currency fluctuations, or protectionist policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Global unrest may impact our ability to sell our products or obtain critical materials. Global economic uncertainty and financial market volatility caused by political instability, changes in international trade relationships and conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the political climate in China and Taiwan may result in limited access to these markets for sales and material purchases. Periods of macroeconomic weakness or recession and heightened market volatility caused by adverse geopolitical developments could increase these risks, potentially resulting in adverse impacts on our business operations. Increased energy costs in Europe, resulting from Russias limiting energy supplies in the region, may result in an economic downturn or an increase in the cost of materials. The recent decline in relations with the United States and China, and relations between China and Taiwan, may result in the imposition of trade restrictions with China or Taiwan. While we have limited sales in Europe and Taiwan, and procurement from these regions, unrest in these areas may result in a decrease in sales of our products, or an increase in costs of materials and services. Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis and expose us to intellectual property infringement. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components or subassemblies used in our products. Our FOX and ABTS systems, WaferPak contactors, DiePak carriers, WaferPak Aligners, and DiePak Loaders contain several components, including environmental chambers, power supplies, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors, module contactors, signal distribution substrates, and certain ICs that are currently supplied by only one or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on subcontractors and single source suppliers involves a number of significant risks, including the loss of control over the manufacturing process, the potential absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. In the event that any significant subcontractor or single source supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture subassemblies, components or parts in required volumes, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers could be lengthy, and no assurance can be given that any additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Any delay, interruption or termination of a supplier relationship could adversely affect our ability to deliver products, which would harm our operating results. Our suppliers manufacture components, tooling, and provide engineering services. During this process, our suppliers are allowed access to our intellectual property. While we maintain patents to protect from intellectual property infringement, there can be no assurance that technological information gained in the manufacture of our products will not be used to develop a new product, improve processes or techniques which compete against our products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Tightening of fiscal monetary policy, and periodic economic and semiconductor industry downturns could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inflation has reached a 40-year high during 2022, and market rates of interest have risen after a prolonged period at historical lows. The increase in inflation has resulted in a tightening of world-wide monetary policy, which in turn has resulted in an increase in the cost of credit. Financial turmoil in the banking system and financial markets has resulted, and may result in the future, in a tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the financial markets and global economy downturn. Periodic global economic and semiconductor industry downturns have negatively affected and could continue to negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. These events may contribute to significant slowdowns in the industry in which we operate. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions can pose the risk that some of our customers may not be able to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms, which could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense. 14 Table of Contents Turmoil in the international financial markets has resulted, and may result in the future, in dramatic currency devaluations, stock market declines, restriction of available credit and general financial weakness. In addition, flash memory and other similar device prices have historically declined and will likely do so again in the future. These developments may affect us in several ways. The market for semiconductors and semiconductor capital equipment has historically been cyclical, and we expect this to continue in the future. The uncertainty of the semiconductor market may cause some manufacturers in the future to further delay capital spending plans. Economic conditions may also affect the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations, resulting in cancellations or deferrals of existing orders and limiting additional orders. In addition, some governments have subsidized portions of fabrication facility construction, and financial turmoil may reduce these governments willingness to continue such subsidies. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If such conditions recur, and we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to reduce our operating expenses sufficiently during periods of weak revenue, or if we utilize significant amounts of cash to support operating losses, we may erode our cash resources and may not have sufficient cash to operate our business. In recent years, in the face of a downturn in our business and a decline in our net sales, we implemented a variety of cost controls and restructured our operations with the goal of reducing our operating costs to position ourselves to more effectively meet the needs of the then weak market for test and burn-in equipment. While we took significant steps to minimize our expense levels and to increase the likelihood that we would have sufficient cash to support operations during the downturn, we have experienced historical operating losses. We anticipate that our existing cash balance together with income from operations, collections of existing accounts receivable, revenue from our existing backlog of products, the sale of inventory on hand, and deposits and down payments against significant orders will be adequate to meet our working capital and capital equipment requirements. Depending on our rate of growth and profitability, and our ability to obtain significant orders with down payments, we may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or capital equipment needs. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when required, or if available, that such financing can be obtained on terms satisfactory to us. We may be subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement which would be time-consuming, expensive and a distraction from our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our proprietary information to erode our competitive advantage, which could harm our business and operating results. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. There are no pending claims against us regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, in the future we may receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against us. Such claims could include assertions that our products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggestions that we may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to us, and, if we are required or deem it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. While we believe we have complied with all applicable environmental laws, our failure to do so could adversely affect our business as a result of having to pay substantial amounts in damages or fees. Federal, state and local regulations impose various controls on the use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic and other hazardous substances used in our operations. We believe that our activities conform in all material respects to current environmental and land use regulations applicable to our operations and our current facilities, and that we have obtained environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. Nevertheless, failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control the use, disposal or storage of or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may fluctuate. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in our operating results, general conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries as well as the worldwide economy, announcement of technological innovations, new systems or product enhancements by us or our competitors, fluctuations in the level of cooperative development funding, acquisitions, changes in governmental regulations, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for small capitalization and high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Legal/Organizational Structure We depend on our key personnel and our success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Gayn Erickson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other executive officers and key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance for our benefit on any of our personnel, and none of our employees are subject to a non-competition agreement with us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success will depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. There are a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it has become increasingly difficult for us to hire such personnel. Competition for such personnel in the semiconductor equipment industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure