Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of the Companys relationship with distributors, and its effects on revenue recognition. 6 The Companys customer service and support program includes system installation, system repair, applications engineering support, spare parts inventories, customer training and documentation. The Company has both applications engineering and field service personnel located at the corporate headquarters in Fremont, California, at two locations in Texas, at the Companys subsidiaries in Japan and Germany, and its branch office in Taiwan. The Companys distributors provide applications and field service support in other parts of the world. The Company customarily provides a warranty on its products. The Company offers service contracts on its systems directly and through its subsidiaries, distributors and representatives. The Company maintains customer support personnel in the Philippines, China and Korea. The Company believes that maintaining a close relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing engineering support improves customer satisfaction and will provide the Company with a competitive advantage in selling its products to the Companys customers. BACKLOG At May 31, 2016, the Companys backlog was $5.3 million compared with $12.0 million at May 31, 2015. The Companys backlog consists of product orders for which confirmed purchase orders have been received and which are scheduled for shipment within 12 months. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments or development projects, the Companys backlog as of a particular date may not be indicative of net sales for any succeeding period. RESEARCH AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company historically has devoted a significant portion of its financial resources to research and development programs and expects to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts. Certain research and development expenditures related to non-recurring engineering milestones have been transferred to cost of goods sold, reducing research and development expenses. The Companys research and development expenses during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $4.3 million, $4.1 million and $3.4 million, respectively. The Company conducts ongoing research and development to design new products and to support and enhance existing product lines. Building upon the expertise gained in the development of its existing products, the Company has developed the FOX family of systems for performing test and burn-in of entire processed wafers, rather than individual die or packaged parts. During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with a customer to develop a next generation FOX system, and the Company shipped the first system in July 2016. This new FOX system is designed to provide the customer with increased test flexibility and capability at a significantly lower cost of test than alternative solutions while also expanding the markets addressed by our FOX full wafer test products. The Company is developing enhancements to the ABTS and FOX families of products, intended to improve the capability and performance for testing and burn-in of future generation ICs and provide the flexibility in a wide variety of applications from logic to memory. MANUFACTURING The Company assembles its products from components and parts manufactured by others, including environmental chambers, power supplies, metal fabrications, printed circuit assemblies, ICs, burn-in sockets, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors and interconnect substrates. Final assembly and testing are performed within the Companys facilities. The Companys strategy is to use in-house manufacturing only when necessary to protect a proprietary process or when a significant improvement in quality, cost or lead time can be achieved and relies on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components and subassemblies used in its products. The Companys principal manufacturing facility is located in Fremont, California. The Companys facility in Utting, Germany provides limited manufacturing and product customization. COMPETITION The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment market include price, technical capabilities, quality, flexibility, automation, cost of ownership, reliability, throughput, product availability and customer service. In each of the markets it serves, the Company faces competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. The Companys FOX full wafer contact systems face competition from larger systems manufacturers that have significant technological know-how and manufacturing capability. Competing suppliers of full wafer contact systems include Advantest Corporation, Teradyne Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., and Tokyo Electron Limited. The Companys ABTS TDBI systems have faced and are expected to continue to face increasingly severe competition, especially from several regional, low-cost manufacturers and from systems manufacturers that offer higher 7 power dissipation per device under test. Some users of such systems, such as independent test labs, build their own burn-in systems, while others, particularly large IC manufacturers in Asia, acquire burn-in systems from captive or affiliated suppliers. The market for burn-in systems is highly fragmented, with many domestic and international suppliers. Competing suppliers of burn-in and functional test systems that compete with ABTS systems include Dong-Il Corporation, Micro Control Company, Incal Technology and Advantest Corporation. The Companys WaferPak products are facing and are expected to face increasing competition. Several companies have developed or are developing full-wafer and single-touchdown probe cards. As the full-wafer test market develops, the Company expects that other competitors will emerge. The primary competitive factors in this market are cost, performance, reliability and assured supply. Competing suppliers of full-wafer probe cards include FormFactor, Inc., Japan Electronic Materials Corporation and Micronics Japan Co., Ltd. The Companys test fixture products face numerous regional competitors. There are limited barriers to entry into the BIB market, and as a result, many companies design and manufacture BIBs, including BIBs for use with the Companys ABTS and MAX systems. The Company has granted royalty-bearing licenses to several companies to make BIBs for use with the Companys MAX4 systems and the Company may grant additional licenses as well. Sales of MAX4 BIBs by licensees result in royalties to the Company. The Company expects that its DiePak products will face significant competition. The Company believes that several companies have developed or are developing products which are intended to enable test and burn-in of bare die. If the bare die market develops, the Company expects that other competitors will emerge. The DiePak products also face severe competition from other alternative test solutions. The Company expects that the primary competitive factors in this market will be cost, performance, reliability and assured supply. Suppliers with products that compete with our DiePak products include Yamaichi Electronics Co., Ltd. The Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by the Companys competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of the Companys products. The Company has observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect the Companys operating margins and results. The Company believes that to remain competitive it must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand its customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS The Company relies primarily on the technical and creative ability of its personnel, its proprietary software, and trade secrets and copyright protection, rather than on patents, to maintain its competitive position. The Companys proprietary software is copyrighted and licensed to the Companys customers. At May 31, 2016 the Company held forty-six issued United States patents with expiration date ranges from 2017 to 2029 and had several additional United States patent applications and foreign patent applications pending. The Companys ability to compete successfully is dependent in part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology and information. Although the Company attempts to protect its proprietary technology through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, there can be no assurance that these measures will be adequate or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. Further, there can be no assurance that claims allowed on any patent issued to the Company will be sufficiently broad to protect the Companys technology, that any patent will be issued to the Company from any pending application or that foreign intellectual property laws will protect the Companys intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of the Companys proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that the Companys intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company. Also, there can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources to defend its patents from infringement or claims of invalidity. There are currently no pending claims against the Company regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, the Company may receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against the Company. Such claims could include assertions that the Companys products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggest the Company may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such 8 claim made in the future will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to the Company, and, if the Company is required or deems it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. EMPLOYEES As of May 31, 2016, the Company, including its two foreign subsidiaries and one branch office, employed 76 persons collectively, on a full-time basis, of whom 21 were engaged in research, development and related engineering, 21 were engaged in manufacturing, 23 were engaged in marketing, sales and customer support and 11 were engaged in general administration and finance functions. In addition, the Company from time to time employs a number of contractors and part-time employees, particularly to perform customer support and manufacturing. The Companys success is in part dependent on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled workers, who are in high demand. None of the Companys employees are represented by a union and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage. The Companys management considers its relations with its employees to be good. BUSINESS SEGMENT DATA AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS The Company operates in a single business segment, the designing, manufacturing and marketing of advanced test and burn-in products to the semiconductor manufacturing industry in several geographic areas. Selected financial information, including net sales and property and equipment, net for each of the last three fiscal years, by geographic area is included in Part II, Item 8, Note 13 Segment Information and certain risks related to such operations are discussed in Part I, Item 1A, under the heading We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Companys common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol AEHR. The Companys annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports that are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through the Companys website at www.aehr.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov , that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In addition, information regarding the Companys code of conduct and ethics and the charters of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees, are available free of charge on the Companys website listed above. Item 1A. R isk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If we are not able to reduce our operating expenses sufficiently during periods of weak revenue, or if we utilize significant amounts of cash to support operating losses, we may erode our cash resources and may not have sufficient cash to operate our business. In recent years, in the face of a downturn in our business and a decline in our net sales, we implemented a variety of cost controls and restructured our operations with the goal of reducing our operating costs to position ourselves to more effectively meet the needs of the then weak market for test and burn-in equipment. While we took significant steps to minimize our expense levels and to increase the likelihood that we would have sufficient cash to support operations during the downturn, from fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2016, with the exception of fiscal 2014, we experienced operating losses. The Company anticipates that the existing cash balance together with income from operations, collections of existing accounts receivable, revenue from our existing backlog of products, the sale of inventory on hand, and deposits and down payments against significant orders will be adequate to meet its short-term working capital and capital 9 equipment requirements. The Company extended the maturity date of its 9.0% Convertible Secured Notes due 2017 (the "Convertible Notes") to April 10, 2019 which improves our ability to meet current liabilities for fiscal 2017. Refer to Note 9 and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND LINE OF CREDIT and SUBSEQUENT EVENTS for further discussion of the Convertible Notes. Depending on our rate of growth and profitability, and our ability to obtain significant orders with down payments, we may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or capital equipment needs. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when required, or if available, that such financing can be obtained on terms satisfactory to the Company. Depending on our rate of growth and profitability, and our ability to obtain significant orders with down payments, we may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or capital equipment needs. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when required, or if available, that such financing can be obtained on terms satisfactory to the Company. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we cannot maintain compliance with NASDAQs continued listing requirements. In order to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we are required to maintain compliance with NASDAQs continued listing requirements. The continued listing requirements include, among others, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and any of: (i) a minimum stockholders equity of $2.5 million; (ii) a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million; or (iii) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three fiscal years. There are no assurances that we will be able to sustain long-term compliance with NASDAQs continued listing requirements. On April 19, 2016 the Company was notified by NASDAQ that it was no longer in compliance with NASDAQs continued listing requirements as we did not have a minimum stockholders equity of $2.5 million. The Company submitted a plan to regain compliance, and we received an extension until October 17, 2016 to implement the plan. There are no assurances that we will be able to execute the plan to regain compliance or that we will be able to maintain compliance. If we fail to regain and maintain compliance with the applicable requirements, our stock may be delisted. If we are delisted, we would expect our common stock to be traded in the over-the-counter market, which could make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to declines in our share price and liquidity. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market would also constitute an event of default under our Convertible Notes. In addition, delisting could result in negative publicity and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We rely on increasing market acceptance for our FOX system, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers or maintaining our existing customers. A principal element of our business strategy is to increase our presence in the test equipment market through system sales in our FOX wafer-level test and burn-in product family. The FOX system is designed to simultaneously functionally test and burn-in all of the die on a wafer on a single touchdown. The market for the FOX systems is in the early stages of development. Market acceptance of the FOX system is subject to a number of risks. Before a customer will incorporate the FOX system into a production line, lengthy qualification and correlation tests must be performed. We anticipate that potential customers may be reluctant to change their procedures in order to transfer burn-in and test functions to the FOX system. Initial purchases are expected to be limited to systems used for these qualifications and for engineering studies. Market acceptance of the FOX system also may be affected by a reluctance of IC manufacturers to rely on relatively small suppliers such as us. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we may encounter reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we begin volume production and initial installations of FOX systems at customer sites. The failure of the FOX system to achieve increased market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, long-term prospects and our stock price. The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. In each of the markets it serves, the Company faces competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. The Companys FOX full wafer contact systems face competition from larger systems manufacturers that have significant technological know-how and manufacturing capability. The Companys ABTS Test During Burn-in (TDBI) systems have faced and are expected to continue to face increasingly severe competition, especially from several regional, low-cost manufacturers and from systems manufacturers that offer higher power dissipation per device under test. Some users of such systems, such as independent test labs, build their own burn-in systems, while others, particularly large IC manufacturers in Asia, acquire burn-in systems from captive or affiliated suppliers. The Companys WaferPak products are facing and are expected to face increasing competition. Several companies have developed or are developing full-wafer and single-touchdown probe cards. The Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics. New product introductions by the Companys competitors or by new market entrants could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of the Companys products. The Company has observed price competition in the systems market, particularly with respect to its less advanced products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price-based competition, 10 resulting in lower prices which could adversely affect the Companys operating margins and results. The Company believes that to remain competitive it must invest significant financial resources in new product development and expand its customer service and support worldwide. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. We rely on continued market acceptance of our ABTS system and our ability to complete certain enhancements. Continued market acceptance of the ABTS family, first introduced in fiscal 2008, is subject to a number of risks. It is important that we achieve customer acceptance, customer satisfaction and increased market acceptance as we add new features and enhancements to the ABTS product. To date, the Company has shipped ABTS systems to customers worldwide for use in both reliability and production applications. The Company has recognized a weakening of ABTS product sales over the past few quarters. The failure of the ABTS family to increase revenues above current levels would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We generate a large portion of our sales from a small number of customers. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, operating results could suffer dramatically. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and contract assemblers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor equipment. Sales to the Companys five largest customers accounted for approximately 94%, 79%, and 90% of its net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. During fiscal 2016, Apple and Texas Instruments accounted for approximately 47% and 32%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2015, Texas Instruments and Micronas accounted for approximately 45% and 11%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. During fiscal 2014, Texas Instruments, Spansion and Micronas accounted for approximately 40%, 30% and 12%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of the Companys net sales for any of these periods. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future. In addition, sales to particular customers may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The loss of, reduction or delay in an order, or orders from a significant customer, or a delay in collecting or failure to collect accounts receivable from a significant customer could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A substantial portion of our net sales is generated by relatively small volume, high value transactions. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales from the sale of a relatively small number of systems which typically range in purchase price from approximately $300,000 to well over $1 million per system. As a result, the loss or deferral of a limited number of system sales could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating results in a particular period. Most customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer with limited penalties, and, therefore, backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. From time to time, cancellations and rescheduling of customer orders have occurred, and delays by our suppliers in providing components or subassemblies to us have caused delays in our shipments of our own products. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by future cancellations or rescheduling. For non-standard products where we have not effectively demonstrated the ability to meet specifications in the customer environment, we defer revenue until we have met such customer specifications. Any delay in meeting customer specifications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of net sales typically are realized near the end of each quarter. A delay or reduction in shipments near the end of a particular quarter, due, for example, to unanticipated shipment rescheduling, cancellations or deferrals by customers, customer credit issues, unexpected manufacturing difficulties experienced by us or delays in deliveries by suppliers, could cause net sales in a particular quarter to fall significantly below our expectations. We may experience increased costs associated with new product introductions. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we have encountered reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we began volume production and initial installations of certain products at customer sites. Some of these issues in the past have been related to components and subsystems supplied to us by third parties who have in some cases limited the ability of us to address such issues promptly. This process in the past required and in the future is likely to require us to incur un-reimbursed engineering expenses and to experience larger than anticipated warranty claims which could result in product returns. In the early stages of product development there can be no assurance that we will discover any reliability, design and manufacturing issues or, that if such issues arise, that they can be resolved to the customers satisfaction or that the resolution of such problems will not cause us to incur significant development costs or warranty expenses or to lose significant sales opportunities. 11 Periodic economic and semiconductor industry downturns could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Periodic global economic and semiconductor industry downturns have negatively affected and could continue to negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Financial turmoil in the banking system and financial markets has resulted, and may result in the future, in a tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the financial markets and global economy downturn. These events may contribute to significant slowdowns in the industry in which we operate. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions can pose the risk that some of our customers may not be able to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms, which could result in lower sales for the Company. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for the Company. Turmoil in the international financial markets has resulted, and may result in the future, in dramatic currency devaluations, stock market declines, restriction of available credit and general financial weakness. In addition, flash, DRAM and other memory device prices have historically declined, and will likely do so again in the future. These developments may affect us in several ways. The market for semiconductors and semiconductor capital equipment has historically been cyclical, and we expect this to continue in the future. The uncertainty of the semiconductor market may cause some manufacturers in the future to further delay capital spending plans. Economic conditions may also affect the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations, resulting in cancellations or deferrals of existing orders and limiting additional orders. In addition, some governments have subsidized portions of fabrication facility construction, and financial turmoil may reduce these governments willingness to continue such subsidies. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If such conditions recur, and we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographic regions outside of the United States. Approximately 80%, 64%, and 56% of our net sales for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were attributable to sales to customers for delivery outside of the United States. We operate a sales, service and limited manufacturing organization in Germany and sales and service organizations in Japan and Taiwan. We expect that sales of products for delivery outside of the United States will continue to represent a substantial portion of our future net sales. Our future performance will depend, in significant part, upon our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets which in turn will depend, in part, upon a continuation of current trade relations between the United States and foreign countries in which semiconductor manufacturers or assemblers have operations. A change toward more protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or such foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with doing business internationally, including longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, difficulty in staffing and managing global operations, risks of civil disturbance or other events which may limit or disrupt markets, international exchange restrictions, changing political conditions and monetary policies of foreign governments. Approximately 97%, 2% and 1% of our net sales for fiscal 2016 were denominated in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen, respectively. Although the percentages of net sales denominated in Euros and Japanese Yen were small in fiscal 2016, they have been larger in the past and could become significant again in the future. A large percentage of net sales to European customers are denominated in U.S. Dollars, but sales to many Japanese customers are denominated in Japanese Yen. Because a substantial portion of our net sales is from sales of products for delivery outside the United States, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our products compared to products sold by local companies in such markets. In addition, since the price is determined at the time a purchase order is accepted, we are exposed to the risks of fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar exchange rate during the lengthy period from the date a purchase order is received until payment is made. This exchange rate risk is partially offset to the extent our foreign operations incur expenses in the local currency. To date, we have not invested in any instruments designed to hedge currency risks. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner. The semiconductor equipment industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part upon our ability to develop new products and to 12 introduce them at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our success in developing new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance in the field and effective sales and marketing. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both future demand and the technology that will be available to supply that demand. Furthermore, introductions of new and complex products typically involve a period in which design, engineering and reliability issues are identified and addressed by our suppliers and by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products that satisfy market demand. Any such failure would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays can occur between a products introduction and the commencement of the volume production of such product. We have experienced, from time to time, significant delays in the introduction of, and technical and manufacturing difficulties with, certain of our products and may experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introductions or volume production of our new products. Our inability to complete new product development, or to manufacture and ship products in time to meet customer requirements would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis and expose us to intellectual property infringement. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components or subassemblies used in our products. Our FOX and ABTS systems and WaferPak contactors contain several components, including environmental chambers, power supplies, high-density interconnects, wafer contactors, signal distribution substrates, WaferPak Aligners and certain ICs that are currently supplied by only one or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on subcontractors and single source suppliers involves a number of significant risks, including the loss of control over the manufacturing process, the potential absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. In the event that any significant subcontractor or single source supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture subassemblies, components or parts in required volumes, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers could be lengthy, and no assurance can be given that any additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Any delay, interruption or termination of a supplier relationship could adversely affect our ability to deliver products, which would harm our operating results. Our suppliers manufacture components, tooling, and provide engineering services. During this process, our suppliers are allowed access to intellectual property of the Company. While the Company maintains patents to protect from intellectual property infringement, there can be no assurance that technological information gained in the manufacture of our products will not be used to develop a new product, improve processes or techniques which compete against our products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Future changes in semiconductor technologies may make our products obsolete. Future improvements in semiconductor design and manufacturing technology may reduce or eliminate the need for our products. For example, improvements in semiconductor process technology and improvements in conventional test systems, such as reduced cost or increased throughput, may significantly reduce or eliminate the market for one or more of our products. If we are not able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets, our business may decline. Our stock price may fluctuate. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in our operating results, general conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries as well as the worldwide economy, announcement of technological innovations, new systems or product enhancements by us or our competitors, fluctuations in the level of cooperative development funding, acquisitions, changes in governmental regulations, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for small capitalization and high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 13 We depend on our key personnel and our success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Gayn Erickson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other executive officers and key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance for our benefit on any of our personnel, and none of our employees are subject to a non-competition agreement with us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success will depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. There is a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it has become increasingly difficult for us to hire such personnel. Competition for such personnel in the semiconductor equipment industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement which would be time-consuming, expensive and a distraction from our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our proprietary information to erode our competitive advantage, which could harm our business and operating results. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. There are no pending claims against us regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, in the future we may receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against us. Such claims could include assertions that our products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggestions that we may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to us, and, if we are required or deem it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. While we believe we have complied with all applicable environmental laws, our failure to do so could adversely affect our business as a result of having to pay substantial amounts in damages or fees. Federal, state and local regulations impose various controls on the use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic and other hazardous substances used in our operations. We believe that our activities conform in all material respects to current environmental and land use regulations applicable to our operations and our current facilities, and that we have obtained environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. Nevertheless, failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control the use, disposal or storage of or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure