ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The following information should be read in conjunction with Aeluma, Inc. and its subsidiaries (we, us, our, or the Company) unaudited financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Information in this Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q that does not consist of historical facts, are forward-looking statements. Statements accompanied or qualified by, or containing words such as may, will, should, believes, expects, intends, plans, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, outlook, forecast, anticipates, presume, and assume constitute forward-looking statements, and as such, are not a guarantee of future performance. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond our control. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of the factors described in the Risk Factors and detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Risks and uncertainties can include, among others, international, national and local general economic and market conditions: demographic changes; the ability of the Company to sustain, manage or forecast its growth; the ability of the Company to successfully make and integrate acquisitions; raw material costs and availability; new product development and introduction; existing government regulations and changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations; adverse publicity; competition; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results; changes in business strategy or development plans; business disruptions; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the ability to obtain sufficient financing to continue and expand business operations; the ability to develop technology and products; changes in technology and the development of technology and intellectual property by competitors; the ability to protect technology and develop intellectual property; and other factors referenced in this and previous filings. Consequently, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictive of future results. Because of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report or incorporated by reference might not transpire. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in other filings we make with the SEC for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this report. Overview On June 22, 2021, the Company, Acquisition Sub and Biond Photonics entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on June 22, 2021 (the Closing Date), Biond Photonics merged with and into Acquisition Sub, with Acquisition Sub continuing as the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary. As a result of the Merger, we acquired the business of Biond Photonics, a California corporation, doing business as Aeluma. At the time the certificates of merger reflecting the Merger were filed with the Secretaries of State of California and Delaware (the Effective Time), each of Biond Photonics shares of capital stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger was converted into the right to receive (a) 1.299135853 shares of our common stock (the Common Share Conversion Ratio) , with the maximum number of shares of our common stock issuable to the former holders of Biond Photonics capital stock equal to 4,100,002 after adjustments due to rounding for fractional shares. Immediately prior to the Effective Time, an aggregate of 2,500,000 shares of our common stock owned by the stockholders of PUBCO prior to the Merger were forfeited and cancelled (the Stock Forfeiture). The issuance of shares of our common stock to Biond Photonics former security holders are collectively referred to as the Share Conversion. The Merger Agreement contained customary representations and warranties and pre- and post-closing covenants of each party and customary closing conditions. As a condition to the Merger, we entered into an indemnity agreement with our former officer and directors (the Pre-Merger Indemnity Agreement), pursuant to which we agreed to indemnify such former officer and directors for actions taken by them in their official capacities relating to the consideration, approval and consummation of the Merger and certain related transactions. 13 The Merger was treated as a recapitalization and reverse acquisition for us for financial reporting purposes. Biond Photonics is considered the acquirer for accounting purposes, and our historical financial statements before the Merger were replaced with the historical financial statements of Biond Photonics before the Merger in future filings with the SEC. The Merger is intended to be treated as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The issuance of securities pursuant to the Share Conversion was not registered under the Securities Act, in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act, which exempts transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering, and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated by the SEC thereunder. These securities may not be offered or sold in the U.S. absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirement and are subject to further contractual restrictions on transfer. We develop novel optoelectronic devices for sensing and communications applications. Aeluma has pioneered a technique to manufacture devices using high performance compound semiconductor materials on large diameter silicon wafers that are commonly used to manufacture mass market microelectronics. This enables cost effective manufacturing of high-performance photodetector array circuits for imaging applications in mobile devices. These devices may be used as image sensors that generate an image by detecting light, in a manner similar to a digital camera taking pictures. Our devices may incorporate additional functionality for 3D image capture when integrated into various system architectures. This technology has the potential to enhance the performance and capability of camera image sensors, Lidar, augmented reality, facial recognition, and other applications. Aeluma has acquired a key piece of manufacturing equipment, an MOCVD tool, and has headquarters in Goleta, CA with a manufacturing cleanroom to house this equipment. The Offering Immediately following the Merger, we sold 3,482,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to an initial closing of a private placement offering at a purchase price of $2.00 per share (the Offering Price). We held a second closing on June 28, 2021 for an additional 402,500 shares of our common stock and a third and final close on July 1, 2021 for an additional 115,000. Accordingly, we sold a total of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock. The private placement offering is referred to herein as the Offering. The aggregate gross proceeds from the three closings of the Offering were $8,000,000 (before deducting placement agent fees and expenses of the Offering of $1,082,575). The three closings of the Offering were exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated by the SEC thereunder. The common stock in the Offering was sold to accredited investors, as defined in Regulation D, and was conducted on a reasonable best efforts basis. In connection with the Offering and subject to the closing of the Offering, we agreed to pay the placement agent, GP Nurmenkari Inc. (the Placement Agent), a U.S. registered broker-dealer, a cash placement fee of 10% of the gross proceeds raised from investors in the Offering (other than the first $630,000 of common stock sold to pre-Merger Biond Photonics shareholders and their friends and family, for which the Placement Agent received a 3% cash fee, and $170,000 of common stock sold to pre-Merger Biond Photonics friends and family for which the Placement Agent received no cash fee) and to issue to it 50,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase a number of shares of our common stock equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold in the Offering (other than the first $800,000 of common stock sold to pre-Merger Biond Photonics shareholders and their friends and family), with a term of five years and an exercise price of $2.00 per share (the Placement Agent Warrants). We also agreed to pay certain expenses of the Placement Agent in connection with the Offering. As a result of the foregoing, we paid the Placement Agent an aggregate commission of $748,900 and issued to it 50,000 shares of our common stock and Placement Agent Warrants to purchase 360,000 shares of our common stock in connection with the two closings of the Offering. We have also reimbursed the Placement Agent for approximately $265,000 of legal and other expenses incurred in connection with the Offering. Subject to certain customary exceptions, we have agreed to indemnify the Placement Agent to the fullest extent permitted by law against certain liabilities that may be incurred in connection with the Offering, including certain civil liabilities under the Securities Act, and, where such indemnification is not available, to contribute to the payments the Placement Agent and their sub-agents may be required to make in respect of such liabilities. 14 Plan of Operations During the next twelve months, we expect to take the following steps in connection with the further development of our business and the implementation of our plan of operations. We are currently preparing the facility for equipment installation, which includes the performance of minor HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning) modifications in our cleanroom manufacturing area, electrical work in order to provide proper power to equipment and the repositioning of some nonstructural walls to customize the space layout for equipment. Soon thereafter, equipment will be installed and then brought online, meaning power will be supplied to the equipment and various connections will be made including gas supply lines, exhaust, and other connections. Equipment installation will be performed by Company employees, and, in some cases, together with field service engineers from the equipment manufacturers or consultants. Some equipment was procured previously, and other equipment is being procured through purchase orders with equipment manufactures. The primary sources of funding for equipment procurement and installation are the seed funding raised prior to becoming a public company and the funding raised from our alternative public offering. When fully installed, the equipment will be checked through various test operations to verify that the systems are performing to requirements and we will begin to perform development runs to realize epitaxial wafers, which is the combination of the compound semiconductor materials grown on the silicon wafer. Thereafter, we plan to finalize the purchase agreements for epitaxial wafers with potential customers with whom we currently have support letters, as mentioned elsewhere in this document, and then we will work to deliver on such orders. We will also be performing internal research and development on materials and devices for our planned photodetector array products. As part of this effort, we will be engaging foundries to develop a path toward building engineering samples and future production. In parallel, we will continue to develop our manufacturing and product development strategy by further engaging customers and strategic partners. Limited Operating History We cannot guarantee that the proceeds from the Offering will be sufficient to carry out all of our business plans. Our business is subject to risks inherent in growing an enterprise, including limited capital resources, risks inherent in the research and development process and possible rejection of our products in development. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to carry out all of our operations. Equity financing will result in dilution to existing stockholders. Change of Fiscal Year On June 30, 2021, we changed our fiscal year from the period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 to the period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of each year. Results of Operations Six months ended December 31, 2021 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2020 Our results of operations for the six-month period ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the six-month period ended December 31, 2020, were as follows (some balances on the prior periods combined financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation): Six Months Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Change Net Revenues Operating Expenses: 1,399,590 9,662 1,379,393 Other Income (Expense): Sub-lease rental income & other income 173,245 173,245 Loss Before Provision for Income Tax (1,226,345 ) (9,662 ) (1,206,147 ) Provision for income tax Net Loss $ (1,226,345 ) $ (9,662 ) (1,206,147 ) 15 Net Revenues : We are pre-revenue and, accordingly recorded no revenues for either the six months ended December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. Operating Expenses : During the six months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we incurred $1,399,590 and $9,662 of operating expenses, respectively. This increase was due to the start-up of operations and stock compensation expenses related to advisor agreements Sub-lease rental income and other income: During the six months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded net rental and other income of $173,245 and none, respectively. The increase was due to the rental of our new facility and a related sub-lease to our tenant. Provision for income tax : The Company recorded no provision for income tax for either the six months ended December 31, 2021 or the six months ended December 31, 2020. Net Loss : Net loss increased to $1,226,345 for the six months ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $9,662 for the six months ended December 31, 2020 for the reasons described above. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our financial statements have been presented on the basis that are a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As presented in the financial statements, we incurred a net loss of $1,226,345 for the six months ended December 31, 2021 and losses are expected to continue in the near term. The accumulated deficit was $1,457,267. We have been funding our operations through private loans and the sale of common stock in private placement transactions. Management anticipates that significant additional expenditures will be necessary to develop and expand our business before significant positive operating cash flows can be achieved. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital and to ultimately achieve sustainable revenues and profitable operations. At December 31, 2021, we had $5,483,748 of cash on hand. These funds are insufficient to complete our business plan and, as a consequence, we will need to seek additional funds, primarily through the issuance of debt or equity securities for cash to operate our business. No assurance can be given that any future financing will be available or, if available, that it will be on terms that are satisfactory to us. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing, it may contain undue restrictions on our operations, in the case of debt financing or cause substantial dilution for our stockholders, in the case of equity financing. Management has undertaken steps as part of a plan to improve operations with the goal of sustaining our operations for the next twelve months and beyond. These steps include (a) raising additional capital and/or obtaining financing; (b) controlling overhead and expenses; and (c) executing material sales or research contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully accomplish these steps and it is uncertain that the Company will achieve a profitable level of operations and obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available to the Company on satisfactory terms and conditions, if at all. As of the date of this Report, we have not entered into any formal agreements regarding the above. 16 In the event the Company is unable to continue as a going concern, the Company may elect or be required to seek protection from its creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. To date, management has not considered this alternative, nor does management view it as a likely occurrence. Cash, total current assets, total assets, total current liabilities and total liabilities as of December 31, 2021 as compared to June 30, 2021, were as follows: December 31, 2021 June 30, 2021 Cash $ 5,483,748 $ 6,787,250 Total current assets $ 6,387,000 $ 7,472,235 Total assets $ 8,089,313 $ 9,083,119 Total current liabilities $ 399,386 $ 287,100 Total liabilities $ 938,496 $ 897,555 At December 31, 2021, we had working capital of $5,987,614 compared to working capital of $7,185,135 at June 30, 2021. Current assets decreased to $6,387,000 at December 31, 2021 from $7,472,235 at June 30, 2021, primarily as a result of the start-up of operations. Current liabilities increased to $399,386 at December 31, 2021 from $287,100 at June 30, 2021, primarily as a result of the timing of accounts payable. For the six months ended December 31, 2021, net cash used by operations was $895,185 and was the result of the net loss from operations with a change in prepaids, offset by a change in accounts payable and accrued expenses and non-cash expenses. For the six months ended December 31, 2020, net cash provided by operations was $2,431. Net cash used in our investing activities were $570,248 and none for the six months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Investing activity for the 2021 period related to the setup of our new facility. Our financing activities generated a cash inflow of $161,930 for the six months ended December 31, 2021, due to the offering described above. In the six months ended December 31, 2020, financing activities netted $139,200 from Founder loans and a small private placement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses in the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. We continually review the estimates and underlying assumptions to ensure they are appropriate for the circumstances. Accounting assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. A summary of our other critical accounting policies is included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Transition Report on Form 10-KT for the period ended June 30, 2021. During the six months ended December 31, 2021, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as special purpose entities (SPEs).