Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview of our Business Parc Investments Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 21, 2020. Since inception, the Company has been engaged in organizational efforts and obtaining initial financing. The Company was formed as a vehicle to pursue a business combination through the acquisition of, or merger with, an operating business. The Company filed a registration statement on Form 10 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on October 21, 2020, and since its effectiveness, the Company has focused its efforts to identify a possible business combination. The Company is currently considered to be a blank check company. The SEC defines those companies as any development stage company that is issuing a penny stock, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(51) of the Exchange Act, and that has no specific business plan or purpose, or has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an unidentified company or companies. Many states have enacted statutes, rules and regulations limiting the sale of securities of blank check companies in their respective jurisdictions. The Company is also a shell company, defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act as a company with no or nominal assets (other than cash) and no or nominal operations. Management does not intend to undertake any efforts to cause a market to develop in our securities, either debt or equity, until we have successfully concluded a business combination. The Company intends to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as we are subject to those requirements. In addition, the Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (JOBS Act), and may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and exemptions from the requirements of Sections 14A(a) and (b) of the Exchange Act to hold a nonbinding advisory vote of shareholders on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments not previously approved. The Company has also elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year during which our revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (2) the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, (3) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act, or (4) when the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a smaller reporting company, as such term is defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, certain of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company may continue to be available to us as a smaller reporting company, including: (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act; (2) scaled executive compensation disclosures; and (3) the requirement to provide only two years of audited financial statements, instead of three years. The Company was organized as a vehicle to investigate and, if such investigation warrants, acquire a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation. The Companys principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with an operating business. The Company will not restrict its potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business. The Company currently does not engage in any business activities that provide cash flow. During the next twelve months we anticipate incurring costs related to: (i) filing Exchange Act reports, and (ii) investigating, analyzing and consummating an acquisition. 1 We believe we will be able to meet these costs through use of funds to be loaned by or invested in us by our stockholders, management or other investors. As of March 31, 2021, the Company had $2,966 in cash. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to secure any additional funding as needed. Currently, however, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate future profitable operations and/or to obtain the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. Our ability to continue as a going concern is also dependent on our ability to find a suitable target company and enter into a possible reverse merger with such company. Managements plan includes obtaining additional funds by equity financing through a reverse merger transaction and/or related party advances, however, there is no assurance of additional funding being available. The Company may consider acquiring a business which has recently commenced operations, is a developing company in need of additional funds for expansion into new products or markets, is seeking to develop a new product or service, or is an established business which may be experiencing financial or operating difficulties and is in need of additional capital. In the alternative, a business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which does not need substantial additional capital but which desires to establish a public trading market for its shares while avoiding, among other things, the time delays, significant expense, and loss of voting control which may occur in a public offering. Any target business that is selected may be a financially unstable company or an entity in its early stages of development or growth, including entities without established records of sales or earnings. In that event, we will be subject to numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of financially unstable and early stage or potential emerging growth companies. In addition, we may effect a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, and, although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risks. Our management anticipates that it will likely be able to effect only one business combination, due primarily to our limited financing and the dilution of interest for present and prospective stockholders, which is likely to occur as a result of our managements plan to offer a controlling interest to a target business in order to achieve a tax-free reorganization. This lack of diversification should be considered a substantial risk in investing in us, because it will not permit us to offset potential losses from one venture against gains from another. The Company anticipates that the selection of a business combination will be complex and extremely risky. Our management believes that there are numerous firms seeking the perceived benefits of becoming a publicly traded corporation. Such perceived benefits of becoming a publicly traded corporation include, among other things, facilitating or improving the terms on which additional equity financing may be obtained, providing liquidity for the principals of and investors in a business, creating a means for providing incentive stock options or similar benefits to key employees, and offering greater flexibility in structuring acquisitions, joint ventures and the like through the issuance of stock. Potentially available business combinations may occur in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization officially declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 a pandemic. A significant outbreak of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases has resulted in a widespread health crisis that has significantly adversely affected businesses of all types, economies and financial markets worldwide. The business of any potential target business with which we consummate a business combination could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be unable to complete a business combination if continued concerns relating to COVID-19 restrict travel, limit the ability to have meetings with potential investors or the target companys personnel, vendors and services providers are unavailable to negotiate and consummate a transaction in a timely manner. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our search for a business combination will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19 and the actions to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, among others. If the disruptions posed by COVID-19 or other matters of global concern continue for an extended period of time, our ability to consummate a business combination, or the operations of a target business with which we ultimately consummate a business combination, may be materially adversely affected. 2 As of the date of this Form 10-Q, the Company has not entered into any definitive agreement with any party, nor have there been any specific discussions with any potential business combination candidates regarding business opportunities for the Company. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, the Company had total assets equal to $2,966 comprised exclusively of cash. The Companys current liabilities as of March 31, 2021 totaled $45,500 comprised of accounts payable and accrued expenses and amounts due under a note payable to a shareholder. The Company can provide no assurance that it can continue to satisfy its cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. The following is a summary of the Companys cash flows provided by (used in) operating and financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021: Net Cash (Used In) Operating Activities $ (359 ) Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities $ - Net Change in Cash $ (359 ) The Company has only cash assets and has generated no revenues since inception. The Company is also dependent upon the receipt of capital investment or other financing to fund its ongoing operations and to execute its business plan of seeking a combination with a private operating company. In addition, the Company is dependent upon certain related parties to provide continued funding and capital resources. If continued funding and capital resources are unavailable at reasonable terms, the Company may not be able to implement its plan of operations. Issuance of Promissory Note to a Stockholder and Director On August 21, 2020, in connection with advances made in connection with costs incurred by the Company, the Company issued a promissory note to Mark Tompkins, a stockholder and director of the Company, pursuant to which the Company agreed to repay Mr. Tompkins the sum of any and all amounts that Mr. Tompkins may advance to the Company on or before the date that the Company consummates a business combination with a private company or reverse takeover transaction or other transaction after which the Company would cease to be a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act). The Company has used the proceeds from the note to cover its expenses. Although Mr. Tompkins has no obligation to advance funds to the Company under the terms of the note, it is anticipated that he may advance funds to the Company as fees and expenses are incurred in the future. As a result, the Company issued the note in anticipation of such advances. Interest shall not accrue on the outstanding principal amount of the note except if an Event of Default (as defined in the note) has occurred. In the event of an Event of Default, the entire note shall automatically become due and payable (the Default Date), and starting from five (5) days after the Default Date, the interest rate on the note shall accrue at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum. As of March 31, 2021, the total amount due under the note was $35,000. Results of Operations The Company has not conducted any active operations since inception, except for its efforts to locate suitable acquisition candidates. No revenue has been generated by the Company for the three months ended March 31, 2021. It is unlikely the Company will have any revenues unless it is able to effect an acquisition or merger with an operating company, of which there can be no assurance. It is managements assertion that these circumstances may hinder the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Companys plan of operation for the next twelve months shall be to continue its efforts to locate suitable acquisition candidates. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, the Company had a net loss of $10,859 comprised of accounting, audit and other professional service fees incurred in relation to the preparation and filing of the Companys SEC filings and general and administrative expenses. 3 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Contractual Obligations As a smaller reporting company as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is not required to provide this information. Emerging Growth Company As an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, the Company has elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.