Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise indicates, references to Aeluma, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to Aeluma, Inc. and Subsidiary. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included in this report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in other filings we make with the SEC for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictive of future results. 31 Overview Aeluma develops novel optoelectronic and electronic devices for sensing, communication, and computing applications. Aeluma has pioneered a technique to produce semiconductor materials and chips using high-performance compound semiconductors on large-diameter substrates that are commonly used to manufacture mass-market microelectronics. This enables cost-effective manufacturing of high-performance photodetectors and photodetector arrays for imaging applications in mobile devices, as well as other applications. Aelumas technology has the potential to impact a broad range of market verticals. Aeluma is based in Goleta, California, where we operate in a 9,000 sq. ft. facility with a state-of-the-art R&D/manufacturing cleanroom and access to world-class rapid prototyping capabilities. The facility houses unique equipment for scalable manufacturing. Aeluma also partners with production-scale fabrication foundries and packaging companies. Aeluma maintains extensive patent protection and trade secrets that relate to its materials, manufacturing technology, and applications. Aeluma is a transformative semiconductor company specializing in high-performance technology that scales. Applications include mobile, automotive, AI, defense & aerospace, communication, AR/VR, high-performance commuting, and quantum computing. Aeluma aims to break out of traditional manufacturing to expand the reach of its technology into mass markets. The demand for higher-performance semiconductors in consumer markets is increasing (https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/shortwave-ir-market-52975079.html). Aelumas disruptive technology is scalable, cost-effective, while not sacrificing performance. Additionally, Aelumas technology may be used to manufacture other electronic and optoelectronic devices including lasers, transistors, and solar cells. Recent Government Contracts In August 2024, we received a contract by NASA to develop quantum dot photonic integrated circuits (PICs) on silicon. This advanced technology targets next-generation space and aerospace applications, enabling capabilities such as free-space laser communication, autonomous navigation, and precision sensing. In September 2024, we received an $11.7 million contract with DARPA to develop heterogeneous integration technology for nano-scale semiconductors that is compatible with leading-edge and future advanced-node semiconductors. Technology applications include AI, mobile devices, and 5G/6G wireless networking. This DARPA contract to Aeluma is structured with $6.0 million expected to be invoiced over the first 18 months and the remaining $5.7 million invoiced over the following 18 months, contingent on Aeluma meeting certain milestones. In April 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy to develop commercially viable, low-cost shortwave infrared (SWIR) photodetectors. The award will accelerate commercialization of Aelumas wafer-scale platform for high-sensitivity, energy-efficient photodetector sensors applicable across critical growth sectors. In June 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Navy that could accelerate development of high-speed photodetectors for government and commercial applications. The new contract is for up to $1.3 million in funding, includes a major global interconnect manufacturer as a proposed subcontractor, and involves support from a top-tier government prime contractor. In June 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Navy that could accelerate development and commercialization for next-generation quantum computing and sensing systems. The new contract will support Aelumas low size, weight, and power imaging sensors for next-generation submarine systems. Private Placements and Conversion of Notes Between August 5, 2024 and August 27, 2024, we issued convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $3.1 million to 10 accredited investors, pursuant to a private note financing. The Notes were to mature in June 2026 and did not carry any interest. The Notes were convertible into shares of the Companys common stock par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock) upon the occurrence of certain events, (i.e., qualified financing resulting in at least $5.0 million to the Company, if the Common Stock is uplisted to a national securities exchange or if neither of those such events occur prior to the maturity date, (together with Sale of the Company (as hereinafter defined), a Conversion Event)). In the event the Company did not complete qualified financing or uplist at or before the maturity date, the outstanding balance of the Notes would automatically convert without any further action by the Holder into shares of the Companys common stock equal to eighty-five percent (85%) to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the OTC Markets for the five trading days immediately prior to maturity date. The Note also provided that if there was a Sale of the Company, as defined in the Note, the Holder may elect to receive a cash payment equal to the aggregate amount of principal then outstanding under such Holders Note or convert the Note into shares of Common Stock equal to 85% of the VWAP of the Common Stock on the OTC Markets for the five trading days immediately prior to the Sale of the Company. Although the conversion price was dependent upon the type of Conversion Event that occurs, the Note carried a ceiling and floor price: the applicable conversion price would not be lower than 85% of the 5-day VWAP on the applicable Closing Date (the Floor Price) nor would the applicable conversion price be higher than $3.50 per share (the Ceiling Price); the Floor Price and Ceiling Price shall automatically adjust in the event of a stock split or consolidation by the Company. The Floor Price for the investors who participated in this initial closing was equal to $2.68 per share. Since the Floor Price is tied to the Closing Date, the Floor Price may be different for investors who are part of a different closing, should the Company hold additional closings. The Investors were granted piggyback registration rights for the shares of Common Stock underlying the Note. 32 The Note Purchase Agreement (NPA) also contains customary representation and warranties of the Company and the Investors, indemnification obligations of the Company, termination provisions, and other obligations and rights of the parties. The foregoing description of the NPA and the Note is qualified by reference to the full text of the forms of NPA and Note, which are filed as Exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On March 25, 2025, we determined that a Conversion Event had occurred pursuant to the terms of the Notes. As a result, all holders elected to convert their Notes at the applicable Ceiling Price of $3.50 per share, resulting in the issuance of an aggregate of 898,573 shares of Common Stock in exchange for $3.1 million in outstanding principal under the Notes. Following the conversion, we have no further obligations under the converted Notes. The shares issued upon conversion are subject to piggyback registration rights previously granted to the investors. See Public Offering of Common Stock in Note 3 Convertible Notes Public Offering of Common Stock On March 26, 2025, we entered into an Underwriting Agreement (UA) with Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC in connection with a public offering of 2,285,714 shares of its common stock at a price of $5.25 per share (the Offering). We also granted the Underwriter a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 342,857 shares to cover over-allotments, which was exercised in full on March 27, 2025. The Offering closed on March 28, 2025. The Offering was conducted pursuant to our registration statements on Form S-1 (File No. 333-285469), declared effective by the SEC on March 25, 2025, and on Form S-1MEF filed under Rule 462(b), effective March 26, 2025. Under the terms of the UA, we provided a 7.0% underwriting discount per share and issued to the Underwriter warrants to purchase up to 5.0% of the total shares sold in the Offering (including the over-allotment shares), with an exercise price equal to 115% of the public offering price. Total gross proceeds from the Offering, including the over-allotment option, were $13.8 million. Net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and Offering expenses, were $12.6 million. We intend to use the proceeds for business development, scaling manufacturing operations, and general corporate purposes. In connection with the Offering, we, as well as our directors and officers, agreed to a 90-day lock-up period restricting sales or transfers of Company securities, subject to customary exceptions. The Underwriter has the discretion to release these restrictions at any time. Executive Officer Announcements As of March 18, 2025, Mr. James Seo agreed to serve as Aelumas interim Chief Financial Officer/Principal Accounting Officer until we hire a full-time CFO. Mr. Seo has been serving as our Controller since May 2023. As of August 4, 2025, Mr. Christopher Stewart agreed to serve as Aelumas Chief Financial Officer/Principal Accounting Officer, replacing Mr. James Seo, our Interim CFO. 33 Plan of Operations Our technology is based on heterogeneous integration of compound semiconductor materials on large-diameter substrates such as silicon. This heterogeneous integration enables the subsequent device fabrication and manufacturing in large-scale manufacturing environments that are suited to mass markets. We will continue to develop our technology that includes novel materials and devices based on our core intellectual property. Our primary focus is to manufacture high-performance semiconductor technologies that scale for mass markets. Aeluma operates R&D/manufacturing facilities at its headquarters in Goleta, California, and has developed relationships with volume fabrication foundries and packaging partners. We will continue to mature our manufacturing processes to further our commercialization traction. We have generated revenue through various customer and government contracts, including small-volume orders, engineering sample evaluations, non-recurring engineering (NRE) development efforts, and R&D projects. We will continue to perform on these various efforts, expand our business development and marketing efforts, further engage with our manufacturing partners, and continue our efforts toward volume production and commercialization. We expect to rely on such external capabilities to scale our production capacity in support of high-volume markets. Limited Operating History We have a limited operating history, and our future success is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks inherent in the development of a new business. Although we successfully completed our public offering on March 26, 2025, raising gross proceeds of $13.8 million, there can be no assurance that these funds will be sufficient to carry out all aspects of our business plan. Following the Offering, management has assessed our financial position and operating plan and determined that the previously reported substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern has been alleviated. The proceeds from the Offering have provided near-term capital to support our operations and ongoing development efforts. However, we continue to face risks typical of early-stage companies, including limited capital resources, operational and financial challenges, and uncertainty in product development. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue currently consists of commercial product sales and government contracts. Operating Expenses Cost of revenue consists of costs of materials, as well as direct compensation and other expenses incurred to provide deliverables that resulted in payment of our services performed and wafers delivered. We anticipate that our cost of revenue will vary substantially depending on the nature of products and/or services delivered in each customer engagement. R&D expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel, including stock-based compensation and employee benefits, costs associated with design, fabrication, packaging and testing of our devices, and facility lease and utility expenses. We expense R&D expenses as incurred. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel, including stock-based compensation and employee benefits. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party consulting, legal, insurance, audit and accounting services, and office lease and utility expenses. Other (Income) Expense Interest income consists primarily of interest earned in interest-bearing savings accounts and certificates of deposit placed in a bank. Amortization of discount on convertible notes represents the non-cash interest expense associated with the amortization of convertible notes issued to our debtholders. 34 Changes in the fair value of derivative liabilities reflect valuation changes in the derivatives held by us. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Results of Operations Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, as compared to the same period of 2024, were as follows ($ in thousands): Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 4,665 $ 919 $ 3,746 407.9 % Operating expenses 6,807 5,482 1,325 24.2 % Other (income) expense (880 ) 1 (881 ) n/m Loss before income tax expense (3,022 ) (4,562 ) 1,540 -33.8 % Income tax expense - - - - Net loss $ (3,022 ) $ (4,562 ) $ 1,540 -33.8 % Revenue: Revenue increased $3.7 million to $4.7 million, of which $4.4 million was derived from government contracts and $266 thousand from commercial product and service contracts for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. Revenue was $919 thousand, of which $854 thousand was derived from government contracts and $65 thousand from commercial product and service contracts, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. Operating expenses: Operating expenses increased $1.3 million, or 24.2%, to $6.8 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, compared to $5.5 million for the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in material purchases to support the delivery of our products and services associated with revenue, as well as higher compensation and related costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Other (income) expense: Other (income) expense consists of amortization of discount on convertible notes of ($715) thousand, changes in fair value of derivative liabilities of ($278) thousand, and interest income of $113 thousand for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. Income tax expense: No income tax expense was recorded for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents, and a certificate of deposit totaling $15.7 million, compared to $1.3 million as of June 30, 2024. The increase in cash was primarily attributable to the net proceeds from the Offering, which generated gross proceeds of $13.8 million, offset by underwriting discounts and offering expenses totaling $1.2 million. Prior to the Offering, our operations were primarily financed through the issuance of convertible notes and sales of common stock in private placement transactions. As previously disclosed, we had expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to recurring losses and negative operating cash flows. With the successful completion of the Offering, we believe that substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern has been alleviated for at least the next twelve months. We intend to use the net proceeds from the Offering to support operational growth, invest in product development, and fund working capital and general corporate purposes. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and certificate of deposit, combined with projected revenues and cost management strategies, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. 35 We will continue to assess our capital requirements and may pursue additional financing opportunities to support long-term growth initiatives or respond to changes in market conditions. As of June 30, 2025, we had working capital of $16.6 million, compared to $766 thousand as of June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a $15.9 million increase in current assets, which rose to $17.3 million from $1.4 million over the same period, largely due to a $14.4 million increase in cash, cash equivalents, and a certificate of deposit. Current liabilities totaled $706 thousand and $627 thousand as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and the balances primarily consisted of accounts payable, along with accrued expenses and other short-term obligations expected to be settled within one year. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented ($ in thousands): Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ (1,148 ) $ (3,455 ) $ 2,307 -66.8 % Investing activities (161 ) (322 ) 161 -50.0 % Financing activities 15,757 (4 ) 15,761 n/m Increase (decrease) in cash $ 14,449 $ (3,781 ) $ 18,230 n/m Net cash used in our operating activities were $1.1 million and $3.5 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, the net cash used in operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $3.0 million and decreases in accounts receivable of $1.0 million, and prepaid and other current assets of $609 thousand. These amounts were partially offset by non-cash expenses including stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million, amortization of discount on convertible notes of $715 thousand, depreciation and amortization expense of $416 thousand, and a change in fair value of derivative liabilities of $278 thousand. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a net loss of $4.6 million, partially offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $732 thousand and depreciation and amortization expense of $311 thousand. Net cash used in our investing activities totaled $161 thousand and $322 thousand for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. These investing activities primarily consisted of purchases of equipment. Net cash provided by our financing activities was $15.8 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, compared to net cash used in our financing activities of $4 thousand for the same period in 2024. We received $3.1 million from the issuance of convertible notes, $12.6 million from the Offering, and $25 thousand from the exercise of stock options for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, compared to $4 thousand we used to purchase unvested restricted shares during the same period in 2024. Critical Accounting Policies The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements New accounting pronouncements adopted and under evaluation are discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.