ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The following information should be read in conjunction with Aeluma, Inc. and its subsidiaries (we, us, our, or the Company) condensed unaudited financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Information in this Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q that does not consist of historical facts, are forward-looking statements. Statements accompanied or qualified by, or containing words such as may, will, should, believes, expects, intends, plans, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, outlook, forecast, anticipates, presume, and assume constitute forward-looking statements, and as such, are not a guarantee of future performance. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond our control. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of the factors described in the Risk Factors and detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Risks and uncertainties can include, among others, international, national and local general economic and market conditions: demographic changes; the ability of the Company to sustain, manage or forecast its growth; the ability of the Company to successfully make and integrate acquisitions; raw material costs and availability; new product development and introduction; existing government regulations and changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations; adverse publicity; competition; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results; changes in business strategy or development plans; business disruptions; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the ability to obtain sufficient financing to continue and expand business operations; the ability to develop technology and products; changes in technology and the development of technology and intellectual property by competitors; the ability to protect technology and develop intellectual property; and other factors referenced in this and previous filings. Consequently, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictive of future results. Because of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report or incorporated by reference might not transpire. Factors that cause actual results or conditions to differ from those anticipated by these and other forward-looking statements include those more fully described elsewhere in this report and in the Risk Factors section of our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2021 and the other filings we make with the SEC. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this report. Overview On June 22, 2021, the Company, Acquisition Sub and Biond Photonics entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on June 22, 2021 (the Closing Date), Biond Photonics merged with and into Acquisition Sub, with Acquisition Sub continuing as the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary. As a result of the Merger, we acquired the business of Biond Photonics, a California corporation, doing business as Aeluma. At the time the certificates of merger reflecting the Merger were filed with the Secretaries of State of California and Delaware (the Effective Time), each of Biond Photonics shares of capital stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger was converted into the right to receive (a) 1.299135853 shares of our common stock (the Common Share Conversion Ratio), with the maximum number of shares of our common stock issuable to the former holders of Biond Photonics capital stock equal to 4,100,000 after adjustments due to rounding for fractional shares. Immediately prior to the Effective Time, an aggregate of 2,500,000 shares of our common stock owned by the stockholders of PUBCO prior to the Merger were forfeited and cancelled (the Stock Forfeiture). The issuance of shares of our common stock to Biond Photonics former security holders are collectively referred to as the Share Conversion. 12 The Merger Agreement contained customary representations and warranties and pre- and post-closing covenants of each party and customary closing conditions. As a condition to the Merger, we entered into an indemnity agreement with our former officer and directors (the Pre-Merger Indemnity Agreement), pursuant to which we agreed to indemnify such former officer and directors for actions taken by them in their official capacities relating to the consideration, approval and consummation of the Merger and certain related transactions. The Merger was treated as a recapitalization and reverse acquisition for us for financial reporting purposes. Biond Photonics is considered the acquirer for accounting purposes, and our historical financial statements before the Merger will be replaced with the historical financial statements of Biond Photonics before the Merger in future filings with the SEC. The Merger is intended to be treated as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The issuance of securities pursuant to the Share Conversion was not registered under the Securities Act, in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act, which exempts transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering, and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated by the SEC thereunder. These securities may not be offered or sold in the U.S. absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirement and are subject to further contractual restrictions on transfer. The Offering Immediately following the Effective Time of the Merger, we sold 3,482,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to an initial closing of a private placement offering at a purchase price of $2.00 per share (the Offering Price). We held a second closing on June 28, 2021 for an additional 402,500 shares of our common stock and a third closing on July 1, 2021 for an additional 115,000 shares of our common stock. Accordingly, we sold a total of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock. The private placement offering is referred to herein as the Offering. The aggregate gross proceeds from the Offering were $8,000,000 (before deducting placement agent fees and expenses of the Offering. The Offering was exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated by the SEC thereunder. The common stock in the Offering was sold to accredited investors, as defined in Regulation D, and was conducted on a reasonable best efforts basis. In connection with the Offering and subject to the closing of the Offering, we agreed to pay the placement agent, GP Nurmenkari Inc. (the Placement Agent), a U.S. registered broker-dealer, a cash placement fee of 10% of the gross proceeds raised from investors in the Offering (or 3% of the first $800,000 of gross proceeds raised from pre-Merger Biond Photonics shareholders and their friends and family) and to issue to it 50,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase a number of shares of our common stock equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold in the Offering (other than the first $800,000 of common stock sold to pre-Merger Biond Photonics shareholders and their friends and family, for which the placement agent will not receive any warrants), with a term of five years and an exercise price of $2.00 per share (the Placement Agent Warrants). We also agreed to pay certain expenses of the Placement Agent in connection with the Offering. As a result of the foregoing, we paid the Placement Agent an aggregate commission of $748,900 and issued to it 50,000 shares of our common stock and Placement Agent Warrants to purchase 360,000 shares of our common stock in connection with the Offering. We have also reimbursed the Placement Agent for approximately $35,000 of expenses incurred in connection with the Offering. Subject to certain customary exceptions, we have agreed to indemnify the Placement Agent to the fullest extent permitted by law against certain liabilities that may be incurred in connection with the Offering, including certain civil liabilities under the Securities Act, and, where such indemnification is not available, to contribute to the payments the Placement Agent and their sub-agents may be required to make in respect of such liabilities. 13 Departure and Appointment of Directors and Officers Our board of directors is authorized to and consists of 5 members. As of the Effective Time, Mr. Ian Jacobs and Mr. Mark Tompkins resigned from our board of directors, and Mr. Jonathan Klamkin, Mr. Lee McCarthy and Mr. Steven DenBaars were appointed to our board of directors. Also, as of the Effective Time, Mr. Jacobs resigned from all officer positions with us, and Jonathan Klamkin was appointed as our President and Chief Executive Officer, Lee McCarthy was appointed as our interim Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. On August 18, 2021, Mr. McCarthy resigned as our interim Chief Financial Officer. Prior to the Merger, the sole business purpose of the Company was to seek the acquisition of or merger with, an existing company. As a result of the consummation of the Merger, on June 22, 2021, Biond Photonics, Inc. became our wholly owned subsidiary and the business of Biond Photonics, Inc. became the business of the Company going forward. Accordingly, at the closing, the Company ceased to be a shell company. Aeluma develops novel optoelectronic devices for sensing and communications applications. Aeluma has pioneered a technique to manufacture devices using high performance compound semiconductor materials on large diameter silicon wafers that are commonly used to manufacture mass market microelectronics. This enables cost effective manufacturing of high-performance photodetector array circuits for imaging applications in mobile devices. These devices may be used as image sensors that generate an image by detecting light, in a manner similar to a digital camera taking a picture. Our devices may incorporate additional functionality and enhanced performance to enable 3D image capture when integrated into various system architectures. This technology has the potential to greatly enhance the performance and capability of camera image sensors, Lidar, augmented reality, facial recognition, and other applications. Aeluma has acquired a key piece of manufacturing equipment and has headquarters in Goleta, CA with a manufacturing cleanroom to house this equipment. Plan of Operations During the next twelve months, we expect to take the following steps in connection with the further development of our business and the implementation of our plan of operations. We are currently preparing the facility for equipment installation. Soon thereafter, equipment will be installed and then brought online, meaning power will be supplied to the equipment and various connections will be made including gas supply lines, exhaust, and other connections. When fully installed, the equipment will be checked through various test operations to verify that the systems are performing to requirements and we will begin to perform development runs to realize epitaxial wafers, which is the combination of the compound semiconductor materials grown on the silicon wafer. Thereafter, we hope to finalize the purchase agreements for epitaxial wafers with the two customers with whom we currently have support letters, as mentioned elsewhere in this Report, and then we will work to deliver on such orders, which would be our first. We will also be performing internal research and development on materials and devices for our planned photodetector array products. As part of this effort, we will be engaging foundries to develop a path toward building engineering samples and future production. In parallel, we will continue to develop our manufacturing and product development strategy by further engaging customers and strategic partners. Limited Operating History We cannot guarantee that the proceeds from the Offering will be sufficient to carry out all of our business plans. Our business is subject to risks inherent in growing an enterprise, including limited capital resources, risks inherent in the research and development process and possible rejection of our products in development. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to carry out all of our operations. Equity financing will result in dilution to existing stockholders. 14 Impact of COVID-19 Outbreak On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern and on March 10, 2020, declared it to be a pandemic. Actions taken around the world to help mitigate the spread of the coronavirus include restrictions on travel, and quarantines in certain areas, and forced closures for certain types of public places and businesses. The coronavirus and actions taken to mitigate it have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on the economies and financial markets of many countries, including the geographical area in which the Company operates. While the closures and limitations on movement, domestically and internationally, are expected to be temporary, if the outbreak continues on its current trajectory the duration of the supply chain disruption could reduce the availability, or result in delays, of materials or supplies to and from the Company, which in turn could materially interrupt the Companys business operations. Given the speed and frequency of the continuously evolving developments with respect to this pandemic, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the magnitude of the impact to its consolidated results of operations. Additionally, it is reasonably possible that estimates made in the financial statements have been, or will be, materially and adversely impacted in the near term as a result of these conditions, including losses on inventory; impairment losses related to goodwill and other long-lived assets and current obligations. Six months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2020 Our revenue, operating expenses, and net loss from operations for the six month period ended June 30, 2021 as compared to the six month period ended June 30, 2020, were as follows some balances on the prior periods combined financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation: Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 NET REVENUES $ $ OPERATING EXPENSES: 255,853 2,992 Other Income (Expense): Sub-lease rental income & other income 90,758 Change in value of liability (48,308 ) Interest expense (3,000 ) Loss Before Provision for Income Tax (216,403 ) (2,992 ) Provision for income tax 800 816 Net Loss $ (217,203 ) $ 3,808 Net Revenues : We recorded no revenues for either the six months ended June 30, 2021 or June 30, 2020. Operating Expenses: During the six months ended June 30, 2021, we incurred $ 255,803 of operating expenses. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, we incurred $2,992 of operating expenses. This increase was due to the start up of operations and stock compensation expenses related to advisor agreements. Sub-lease rental income: During the six months ended June 30, 2021, the Company recorded net rental income of $ 90,758 and none for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase was due the rental of our new facility and a related sub-lease to our tenant. Interest Expense: During the six months ended June 30, 2021, we incurred $ 3,000 of interest expenses, from none for the six months ended June 30, 2020. This increase was due to net write-off of accrued interest expense. 15 Provision for income tax : Provision for income tax was $800 and $816 for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses related to minimum income tax requirements in California. Net Loss : Net loss increased to $ 217,203 for the six months ended June 30, 2021 as compared to $3,808 for the six months ended June 30, 2020 for the reasons described above. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our financial statements have been presented on the basis that are a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As presented in the financial statements, we incurred a net loss of $ 217,203 and $3,808 for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively, and losses are expected to continue in the near term. The accumulated deficit is $ 230,922 and $3,760 at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively. We have been funding our operations through private loans and the sale of common stock in private placement transactions. Refer to Notes 4 through 6 in the financial statements for our discussion of notes payable and shares issued. Management anticipates that significant additional expenditures will be necessary to develop and expand our business before significant positive operating cash flows can be achieved. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital and to ultimately achieve sustainable revenues and profitable operations. At June 30, 2021, we had $6,787,250 of cash on hand; at June 30, 2020, we had $38,302 of cash on hand. These funds are insufficient to complete our business plan and as a consequence, we will need to seek additional funds, primarily through the issuance of debt or equity securities for cash to operate our business. No assurance can be given that any future financing will be available or, if available, that it will be on terms that are satisfactory to us. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing, it may contain undue restrictions on our operations, in the case of debt financing or cause substantial dilution for our stockholders, in the case of equity financing. Management has undertaken steps as part of a plan to improve operations with the goal of sustaining our operations for the next twelve months and beyond. These steps include (a) raising additional capital and/or obtaining financing; (b) controlling overhead and expenses; and (c) executing material sales or research contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully accomplish these steps and it is uncertain that the Company will achieve a profitable level of operations and obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available to the Company on satisfactory terms and conditions, if at all. As of the date of this Report, we have not entered into any formal agreements regarding the above. In the event the Company is unable to continue as a going concern, the Company may elect or be required to seek protection from its creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. To date, management has not considered this alternative, nor does management view it as a likely occurrence. Cash, total current assets, total assets, total current liabilities and total liabilities as of June 30, 2021 as compared to June 30, 2020, were as follows: June 30, 2021 June 30, 2020 Cash $ 6,787,250 $ 38,302 Total current assets $ 7,472,235 $ 38,302 Total assets $ 9,083,119 $ 154,190 Total current liabilities $ 287,100 $ 147,909 Total liabilities $ 897,555 $ 147,909 16 At June 30, 2021, we had working capital of $ 7,185,135 compared to a working capital deficit of $109,607 at June 30, 2020. Current assets increased to $ 7,472,235 at June 30, 2021 from $38,302 at June 30, 2020, primarily as a result of the private placement described above. Current liabilities increased to $ 287,100 at June 30, 2021 from $147,909 at June 30, 2020, primarily as a result of the facility lease agreement the Company entered into. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, net cash used in operations of $ 68,394 was the result of the net loss in operations with a change in prepaids , offset by a change in accounts payable and accrued expenses. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, net cash used in operations of $3,808 was the result of bank charges on the business checking account. Net cash used in our investing activities were $ 27,253 and none for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively. Investing activity for the 2021 period related to the setup of our new facility. Our financing activities resulted in a cash inflow of $ 6,844,595 for the six months ended June 30, 2021, due to the offering described above. Financing activities generated $6,500 in cash for the six months ended June 30 2020 due to shareholder loans, Critical Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The financial statements reflect all adjustments, which in the opinion of management, are necessary to present fairly the financial position at December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2020 and the results of operations and cash flows of the Company for the calendar years ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020. The summary of significant accounting policies presented below is designed to assist in understanding the Companys financial statements. Such financial statements and accompanying notes are the representations of the Companys management, who is responsible for their integrity and objectivity. Basic Net Loss Per Share Basic loss per share is computed by dividing net loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. 17 Use of Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially and adversely from the Companys estimates. To the extent there are material differences between the estimates and the actual results, future results of operations will be affected. Fair Value of Financial Instruments As defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (ASC 820), fair values is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer the liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In determining fair value, the Company uses the market or income approach. Based on this approach, the Company utilizes certain assumptions about the risk inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market-corroborated or generally unobservable inputs. The Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Based on the observability of the inputs used in the valuation techniques, the Company is required to provide the following information according to the fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy ranks the quality and the reliability of the information used to determine fair values. As a basis for considering these assumptions, ASC 820 defines a three-tier value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring fair value. Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active, accessible market for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace Level 3 Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The carrying values of the Companys cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and advances from officers approximate their fair value due to the relatively short maturity of these items. The carrying amounts reported for debt obligations approximate fair value due to the effective interest rate of these obligations reflecting the Companys current borrowing rate. Concentration of Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Property and Equipment Property, equipment and improvements are reported at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance to these assets are charged to expense as incurred; major improvements enhancing the function and/or the assets useful life are capitalized. When items are sold or retired, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gains or losses arising from such transactions are recognized. As of June 30, 2021, the Company has one capitalized construction in progress asset which will be used for the production of their sensors. The asset is not currently in use and will continue to receive capitalized improvements until it is ready to use. Once commissioned and properly setup, the property and equipment will be depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful life. 18 Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers cash in banks, deposits in transit, and highly liquid debt instruments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash and cash equivalents. The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. The Companys accounts are insured by the FDIC but at times may exceed federally insured limits. Income Taxes The Company is expected to have net operating loss carryforwards that it can use to offset a certain amount of taxable income in the future. The Company is currently analyzing the amount of loss carryforwards that will be available to reduce future taxable income. The resulting deferred tax assets will be offset by a valuation allowance due to the uncertainty of its realization. The primary difference between income tax expense attributable to continuing operations and the amount of income tax expense that would result from applying domestic federal statutory rates to income before income taxes relates to the recognition of a valuation allowance for deferred income tax assets. The Company has adopted FASB ASC 740-10, Income Taxes which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold of more likely than not as a measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In making this assessment, a Company must determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, based solely on the technical merits of the position and must assume that the tax position will be examined by taxing authorities. The Companys policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Interest and penalties totaled $0 for periods presented. The Companys net operating loss carryforwards are subject to IRS examination until they are fully utilized, and such tax years are closed. The Company will file tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and the state of California. The Companys federal and state return form are subject to review by the taxing authorities. The Company is not currently under examination by any taxing authority, nor has it been notified of an impending examination. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Changes to accounting principles are established by the FASB in the form of ASUs to the FASBs Codification. We consider the applicability and impact of all ASUs on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, stockholders deficit, cash flows, or presentation thereof. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes existing guidance on accounting for leases in Leases (Topic 840) and generally requires all leases to be recognized in the balance sheet. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which amends certain aspects of the Boards new revenue standard, ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Company does not currently generate revenue. All other newly issued accounting pronouncements but not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as special purpose entities (SPEs). 19