Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise indicates, references to Aeluma, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to Aeluma, Inc. and Subsidiary. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to us. Such statements should not be unduly relied upon. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, intentions, assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts or that are not present facts or conditions. Forward-looking statements and information can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology or words, such as anticipate, approximately, believe, continue, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, ongoing, pending, perceive, plan, potential, predict, project, seeks, should, views or similar words or phrases or variations thereon, or the negatives of those words or phrases, or statements that events, conditions or results can, will, may, must, would, could or should occur or be achieved and similar expressions in connection with any discussion, expectation or projection of future operating or financial performance, costs, regulations, events or trends. The absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements and information are based on managements current expectations and assumptions, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. These statements reflect our current view concerning future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. There are important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those described in this report as anticipated, estimated or expected, as well as general conditions in the economy, capital markets, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) regulations which affect trading in the securities of penny stocks, and other risks and uncertainties. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Depending on the market for our stock and other conditional tests, a specific safe harbor under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 may be available. Notwithstanding the above, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), expressly state that the safe harbor for forward-looking statements does not apply to companies that issue penny stock. Because we may from time to time be considered to be an issuer of penny stock, the safe harbor for forward-looking statements may not apply to us at certain times. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included in this report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in other filings we make with the SEC for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictive of future results. Overview Aeluma develops novel optoelectronic and electronic devices for sensing, communication, and computing applications. Aeluma has pioneered a technique to produce semiconductor materials and chips using high-performance compound semiconductors on large-diameter substrates that are commonly used to manufacture mass-market microelectronics. This enables cost-effective manufacturing of high-performance photodetectors and photodetector arrays for imaging applications in mobile devices, as well as other applications. Aelumas technology has the potential to impact a broad range of market verticals. We operate in a 9,000 sq. ft. facility with a state-of-the-art research and development (R&D)/manufacturing cleanroom and access to world-class rapid prototyping capabilities. The facility houses unique equipment for scalable manufacturing. Aeluma also partners with production-scale fabrication foundries and packaging companies. Aeluma maintains extensive patent protection and trade secrets that relate to its materials, manufacturing technology, and applications. On September 5, 2025, the Company commenced a new five-year lease for an office adjacent to its existing facility to accommodate anticipated headcount growth and support future expansion. 13 Aeluma is a transformative semiconductor company specializing in high-performance technology that scales. Applications include mobile, automotive, AI, defense & aerospace, communication, AR/VR, high-performance computing, and quantum computing. Aeluma aims to break out of traditional manufacturing to expand the reach of its technology into mass markets. The demand for higher-performance semiconductors in consumer markets is increasing (https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/shortwave-ir-market-52975079.html). Aelumas disruptive technology is scalable, cost-effective, while not sacrificing performance. Additionally, Aelumas technology may be used to manufacture other electronic and optoelectronic devices including lasers, transistors, and solar cells. Recent Government Contracts In September 2025, we received a contract with NASA that could accelerate development and commercialization for next-generation quantum computing and sensing systems. The new contract will help advance our efforts to commercialize entangled photon sources, a critical enabler for quantum computing and communication systems. In June 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Navy that could accelerate development and commercialization for next-generation quantum computing and sensing systems. The new contract will support Aelumas low size, weight, and power imaging sensors for next-generation submarine systems. In June 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Navy that could accelerate development of high-speed photodetectors for government and commercial applications. The new contract is for up to $1.3 million in funding, includes a major global interconnect manufacturer as a proposed subcontractor, and involves support from a top-tier government prime contractor. In April 2025, we received a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy to develop commercially viable, low-cost shortwave infrared (SWIR) photodetectors. The award will accelerate commercialization of Aelumas wafer-scale platform for high-sensitivity, energy-efficient photodetector sensors applicable across critical growth sectors. In September 2024, we received an $11.7 million contract with U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) to develop heterogeneous integration technology for nano-scale semiconductors that is compatible with leading-edge and future advanced-node semiconductors. Technology applications include AI, mobile devices, and 5G/6G wireless networking. This DARPA contract to Aeluma is structured with $6.0 million expected to be invoiced over the first 18 months and the remaining $5.7 million invoiced over the following 18 months, contingent on Aeluma meeting certain milestones. In August 2024, we received a contract by NASA to develop quantum dot photonic integrated circuits (PICs) on silicon. This advanced technology targets next-generation space and aerospace applications, enabling capabilities such as free-space laser communication, autonomous navigation, and precision sensing. Private Placements and Conversion of Notes Between August 5, 2024 and August 27, 2024, we issued convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $3.1 million to 10 accredited investors, pursuant to a private note financing. The Notes were to mature in June 2026 and did not carry any interest. The Notes were convertible into shares of the Companys common stock par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock) upon the occurrence of certain events, (i.e., qualified financing resulting in at least $5.0 million to the Company, if the Common Stock is uplisted to a national securities exchange or if neither of those such events occur prior to the maturity date, (together with Sale of the Company (as hereinafter defined), a Conversion Event)). In the event the Company did not complete qualified financing or uplist at or before the maturity date, the outstanding balance of the Notes would automatically convert without any further action by the Holder into shares of the Companys common stock equal to eighty-five percent (85%) to the VWAP of the Common Stock on the OTC Markets for the five trading days immediately prior to maturity date. The Note also provided that if there was a Sale of the Company, as defined in the Note, the Holder may elect to receive a cash payment equal to the aggregate amount of principal then outstanding under such Holders Note or convert the Note into shares of Common Stock equal to 85% of the VWAP of the Common Stock on the OTC Markets for the five trading days immediately prior to the Sale of the Company. Although the conversion price was dependent upon the type of Conversion Event that occurs, the Note carried a ceiling and floor price: the applicable conversion price would not be lower than 85% of the 5-day VWAP on the applicable Closing Date (the Floor Price) nor would the applicable conversion price be higher than $3.50 per share (the Ceiling Price); the Floor Price and Ceiling Price shall automatically adjust in the event of a stock split or consolidation by the Company. The Floor Price for the investors who participated in this initial closing was equal to $2.68 per share. Since the Floor Price is tied to the Closing Date, the Floor Price may be different for investors who are part of a different closing, should the Company hold additional closings. The Investors were granted piggyback registration rights for the shares of Common Stock underlying the Note. 14 The Note Purchase Agreement (NPA) also contains customary representation and warranties of the Company and the Investors, indemnification obligations of the Company, termination provisions, and other obligations and rights of the parties. The foregoing description of the NPA and the Note is qualified by reference to the full text of the forms of NPA and Note, which are filed as Exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On March 25, 2025, we determined that a Conversion Event had occurred pursuant to the terms of the Notes. As a result, all holders elected to convert their Notes at the applicable Ceiling Price of $3.50 per share, resulting in the issuance of an aggregate of 898,573 shares of Common Stock in exchange for $3.1 million in outstanding principal under the Notes. Following the conversion, we have no further obligations under the converted Notes. The shares issued upon conversion are subject to piggyback registration rights previously granted to the investors. See Public Offerings of Common Stock in Note 2 Convertible Notes Public Offerings of Common Stock On March 26, 2025, we entered into an Underwriting Agreement (UA) with Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC in connection with a public offering of 2,285,714 shares of its common stock at a price of $5.25 per share (the March Offering). We also granted the Underwriter a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 342,857 shares to cover over-allotments, which was exercised in full on March 27, 2025. The March Offering closed on March 28, 2025. The March Offering was conducted pursuant to our registration statements on Form S-1 (File No. 333-285469), declared effective by the SEC on March 25, 2025, and on Form S-1MEF filed under Rule 462(b), effective March 26, 2025. Under the terms of the UA, we provided a 7.0% underwriting discount per share and issued to the Underwriter warrants to purchase up to 5.0% of the total shares sold in the March Offering (including the over-allotment shares), with an exercise price equal to 115% of the public offering price. Total gross proceeds from the March Offering, including the over-allotment option, were $13.8 million. Net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and Offering expenses, were $12.6 million. We intend to use the proceeds for business development, scaling manufacturing operations, and general corporate purposes. In connection with the March Offering, we, as well as our directors and officers, agreed to a 90-day lock-up period restricting sales or transfers of Company securities, subject to customary exceptions. The Underwriter has the discretion to release these restrictions at any time. On September 17, 2025, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (UA) with Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, as the representative of the several underwriters named therein (the Underwriters), relating to the issuance and sale by the Company of 1,700,000 shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share in its previously announced public offering (the September Offering). The public offering price in the September Offering was $13.00 per share of Common Stock. In connection with the September Offering, the Company granted the Underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to 255,000 additional shares of its Common Stock at the public offering price, less the underwriting discount, and on September 18, 2025, the Underwriters exercised such option to purchase an additional 255,000 shares of Common Stock. The September Offering closed on September 19, 2025. 15 The net proceeds to the Company from the September Offering were $23.4 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and after payment of offering expenses. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the September Offering, together with its existing cash and cash equivalents, for expansion of business development efforts including (i) advancing manufacturing processes for production; (ii) hiring new employees; and (iii) working capital and general business purposes. The Company made the September Offering pursuant to the Companys effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-289135) previously filed with and declared effective by the SEC and a prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus filed with the SEC on September 18, 2025. Other Recent Events On August 4, 2025, the Company appointed Christopher Stewart as its Chief Financial Officer. Pursuant to Mr. Stewarts employment agreement, he was granted 110,000 stock options and 55,000 restricted stock units (RSUs). The stock options have an exercise price of $21.04, with 25% of the stock options vesting on the twelve (12) month anniversary of Mr. Stewarts employment with the Company. The balance of the stock options will vest in equal monthly increments, on each monthly anniversary of Mr. Stewarts employment start date with the Company, over the next thirty-six (36) months. The stock options expire on the 10-year anniversary of their vesting date. 25% of the shares underlying the RSUs will vest at the end of the fiscal quarter following the twelve (12) month anniversary of Mr. Stewarts employment start date with the Company, with a pro-rated amount for any partial quarter preceding the twelve (12) month anniversary. The balance of the RSUs will vest in equal quarterly increments, with a pro-rated amount for any partial final quarter. Each restricted stock unit represents the contingent right to receive, at settlement, one share of common stock. Plan of Operations Our technology is based on heterogeneous integration of compound semiconductor materials on large-diameter substrates such as silicon. This heterogeneous integration enables the subsequent device fabrication and manufacturing in large-scale manufacturing environments that are suited to mass markets. We will continue to develop our technology that includes novel materials and devices based on our core intellectual property. Our primary focus is to manufacture high-performance semiconductor technologies that scale for mass markets. Aeluma operates R&D and manufacturing facilities at its headquarters in Goleta, California, and has developed relationships with volume fabrication foundries and packaging partners. We will continue to mature our manufacturing processes to further our commercialization traction. We have generated revenue through various customer and government contracts, including small-volume orders, engineering sample evaluations, non-recurring engineering (NRE) development efforts, and R&D projects. We will continue to perform on these various efforts, expand our business development and marketing efforts, further engage with our manufacturing partners, and continue our efforts toward volume production and commercialization. We expect to rely on such external capabilities to scale our production capacity in support of high-volume markets. Limited Operating History We have a limited operating history, and our future success is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks inherent in the development of a new business. Although we successfully completed public offerings on March 26, 2025 and September 22, 2025, raising gross proceeds of $13.8 million and $25.4 million, respectively, there can be no assurance that these funds will be sufficient to carry out all aspects of our business plan. Following the offerings, management has assessed our financial position and operating plan and determined that the previously reported substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern has been alleviated. The proceeds from the offerings have provided near-term capital to support our operations and ongoing development efforts. However, we continue to face risks typical of early-stage companies, including limited capital resources, operational and financial challenges, and uncertainty in product development. 16 Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue currently consists of commercial product sales and government contracts. Operating Expenses Cost of revenue consists of costs of materials, as well as direct compensation and other expenses incurred to provide deliverables that resulted in payment of our services performed and wafers delivered. All such costs are derived through an allocation of R&D expenses that are directly associated with specific projects. We anticipate that our cost of revenue will vary substantially depending on the nature of products and/or services delivered in each customer engagement. R&D expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel, including stock-based compensation and employee benefits, costs associated with design, fabrication, packaging and testing of our devices, and facility lease and utility expenses. We expense R&D expenses as incurred. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel, including stock-based compensation and employee benefits. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party consulting, legal, insurance, audit and accounting services, and office lease and utility expenses. Other (Income) Expense Interest income consists primarily of interest earned in interest-bearing savings accounts and certificates of deposit placed in a bank. Amortization of discount on convertible notes represents the non-cash interest expense associated with the amortization of convertible notes issued to our debtholders. Changes in the fair value of derivative liabilities reflect valuation changes in the derivatives held by us. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Results of Operations Our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to the same period of 2024, were as follows ($ in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 1,385 $ 481 $ 904 187.9 % Operating expenses 2,993 1,212 1,781 146.9 % Other income 115 1 114 n/m Loss before income tax expense (1,493 ) (730 ) (763 ) 104.3 % Income tax expense - - - - Net loss $ (1,493 ) $ (730 ) $ (763 ) 104.3 % Revenue: Revenue increased $904 thousand to $1.4 million, of which $1.34 million was derived from government contracts and $41 thousand from other products and services for the three months ended September 30, 2025. Revenue was $481 thousand, of which $431 thousand was derived from government contracts and $50 thousand from other products and services, for the same period of 2024. 17 Operating expenses: Operating expenses increased $1.8 million, or 146.9%, to $3.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $1.2 million for the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in material purchases to support the delivery of our products and services associated with revenue, as well as higher compensation and related costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits driven by new employees hires to support the expansion of the business and scaling of operations. Other (income) expense: Other (income) expense consists of interest income of $115 thousand for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to amortization of discount on convertible notes of ($145) thousand, changes in fair value of derivative liabilities of $146 thousand, and interest income of $1 thousand for the three months ended for the same period of 2024. Income tax expense: No income tax expense was recorded for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents, and a certificate of deposit totaling $38.1 million, compared to $15.7 million as of June 30, 2025. The increase in cash was primarily attributable to the net proceeds from the public offerings, which generated gross proceeds of $25.4 million, offset by underwriting discounts and offering expenses totaling $2.0 million. Prior to the offerings, our operations were primarily financed through the issuance of convertible notes and sales of common stock in private placement transactions. As previously disclosed, we had expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to recurring losses and negative operating cash flows. With the successful completion of the offerings, we believe that substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern has been alleviated for at least the next twelve months. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offerings to support operational growth, invest in product development, and fund working capital and general corporate purposes. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and certificate of deposit, combined with projected revenues and cost management strategies, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. We will continue to assess our capital requirements and may pursue additional financing opportunities to support long-term growth initiatives or respond to changes in market conditions. As of September 30, 2025, we had working capital of $39.5 million, compared to $16.6 million as of June 30, 2025. The increase was primarily driven by a $22.9 million increase in current assets, which rose to $40.2 million from $17.3 million over the same period, largely due to a $22.4 million increase in cash, cash equivalents, and a certificate of deposit. Current liabilities totaled $768 thousand and $705 thousand as of September 30, 2025 and June 30, 2025, respectively, and the balances primarily consisted of accounts payable, along with accrued expenses and other short-term obligations expected to be settled within one year. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented ($ in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ (815 ) $ (931 ) $ 116 -12.5 % Investing activities (210 ) (2 ) (208 ) n/m Financing activities 23,432 3,145 20,287 n/m Increase in cash and cash equivalents, and certificate of deposit $ 22,407 $ 2,212 $ 20,195 n/m 18 Net cash used in our operating activities were $815 thousand and $931 thousand for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, the net cash used in operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $1.5 million, and increases in accounts receivable of $286 thousand and prepaids and other current assets of $196 thousand, primarily offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, the net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a net loss of $730 thousand, increases in accounts receivable of $262 thousand, prepaids and other current assets of $167 thousand, and changes in fair value of derivative liabilities of $146. These amounts were partially offset by non-cash expenses including stock-based compensation expense of $167 thousand, amortization of discount on convertible notes of $145 thousand, and depreciation and amortization expense of $100 thousand. Net cash used in our investing activities totaled $210 thousand and $2 thousand for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. These investing activities primarily consisted of purchases of equipment. Net cash provided by our financing activities was $23.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net cash provided by our financing activities of $3.1 million for the same period in 2024. We received $23.4 million, net of offering costs, from the public offering and $47 thousand from the exercise of stock options for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $3.1 million from the issuance of convertible notes during the same period in 2024. Critical Accounting Policies We have established various accounting policies that govern the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the preparation of our financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2025 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We had no significant changes in what constituted our accounting policies since the filing of our fiscal year 2025 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain accounting policies require us to make significant estimates and assumptions that have a material impact on the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities, and we consider these to be critical accounting policies. For a description of these critical accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Basis of Presentation in this Report on Form 10-Q. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates and assumptions, which could have a material impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and our results of operations for the reporting periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements New accounting pronouncements under evaluation are discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Basis of Presentation.