Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of Aevas results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in the financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion may contain forward-lookingstatements based upon Aevas current expectations, estimates, and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-lookingstatements due to, among other considerations, the matters discussed in Part I, Item 1A of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K) under the heading Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-LookingStatements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to we, our, us the Company or Aeva refer to the business of Aeva Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. On March 18, 2024, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Amendment) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to effect a 1-for-5 reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of the Companys shares of common stock, $0.0001 par value (the Common Stock). Pursuant to the Reverse Stock Split, every five (5) shares of issued and outstanding shares of common stock were combined into one (1) share of common stock. All share and per share amounts and related stockholders equity balances presented herein have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. There was no change to the shares authorized or in the par value per share of common stock of $0.0001. The Reverse Stock Split affected all stockholders uniformly and did not alter any stockholders percentage interest in the Companys equity. The Company did not issue fractional shares in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Stockholders who were otherwise entitled to fractional shares of common stock were instead entitled to receive a proportional cash payment. The number of shares of common stock issuable under our equity incentive plans and exercisable under the outstanding warrants were also proportionately adjusted. Overview Our vision is to bring perception to broad applications. Through our FMCW sensing technology, we believe we are introducing the worlds first 4D LiDAR-on-chip that, along with our proprietary software applications, has the potential to enable the adoption of LIDAR across broad applications. Founded in 2017 by former Apple engineers Soroush Salehian and Mina Rezk and led by a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators experienced in the field of sensing and perception, Aevas mission is to bring the next wave of perception technology to broad applications from automated driving to industrial automation, consumer device applications, and security. Our 4D LiDAR-on-chip combines silicon photonics technology that is proven in the telecom industry with precise instant velocity measurements and long-range performance for commercialization. As a development stage company, we work closely with our customers on the development and commercialization of their programs and the utilization of our products in such programs. Thus far, our customers have purchased prototype products and engineering services from us for use in their research and development programs. We are expanding our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers to meet our customers anticipated demand for the production of our products. Unlike legacy 3D LiDAR, which relies on Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology and measures only depth and reflectivity, Aevas solution leverages a proprietary FMCW technology to measure velocity in addition to depth, reflectivity and inertial motion. We believe the ability of Aevas solution to measure instant velocity for every pixel is a major advantage over ToF-based sensing solutions. Furthermore, Aevas technology is free from interference from other LiDAR and sunlight, and our core innovations within FMCW are intended to enable autonomous vehicles to see at significantly higher distances of up to 500 meters. We believe Aeva is uniquely positioned to provide a superior solution with the potential to enable higher level of automation for vehicles. Furthermore, we believe the advantages of our 4D LiDAR-on-chip allow us to provide the first LiDAR solution that is fully integrated onto a chip with superior performance at scale, with the potential to drive new categories of perception across industrial automation, consumer devices, and security markets. Key Factors Affecting Aevas Operating Results Aeva believes that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on its ability to capitalize opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of the 2023 Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Pricing, Product Cost and Margins. Our pricing and margins will depend on the volumes and the features as well as specific market applications of the solutions we provide to our customers. We have customers with technologies in various stages of development across different market segments. We anticipate that our prices will vary by market and application due to market-specific product and commercial requirements, supply and demand dynamics and product lifecycles. Aevas future performance will depend on its ability to deliver on economies of scale. Our customers will require that our perception solutions be manufactured and sold at per-unit prices that are competitive. Our ability to compete in key markets will depend on the success of our efforts to efficiently and reliably produce cost-effective perception solutions that are competitively priced and affordable for our commercial-stage customers. Additionally, the macroeconomic conditions in the industry, the growing emergence of competition in advanced assisted driving sensing and software technologies globally can negatively impact pricing, margins and market share. If Aeva does not generate the margins it expects upon 19 Table of Contents commercialization of its perception solutions, Aeva may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. Commercialization of LiDAR-based Applications. We expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future as our customers continue on research and development projects and begin to commercialize advanced driver assist, autonomous and industrial automation solutions that rely on LiDAR technology. As more customers reach the commercialization phase and as the market for LiDAR solutions matures, these fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Sales Volume. Each product program will have an expected range of sales volumes, depending on the end market demand for our customers products as well as market application. This can depend on several factors, including market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In addition to end market demand, sales volumes also depend on whether our customer is in the development or production phase. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts or strategic customer pricing on sales of our solutions, which may or may not be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes which in turn could adversely impact our gross margins. Aevas ability to ultimately achieve profitability is dependent upon progression of existing relationships to production and our ability to meet required volumes and required cost targets and gross margins. Delays of our current and future customers programs could result in Aeva being unable to achieve its revenue targets and profitability in the time frame it anticipates. Such delays could result in Aeva requiring to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. Basis of Presentation Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Revenue consists of sales of perception solutions or sensing systems and non-recurring engineering services. Aeva is engaged in design, manufacturing and sale of LiDAR sensing systems and related perception and autonomy-enabling software solutions serving customers in automotive, industrial, and other markets. Under the customer agreements, Aeva delivers a specified number of sensing systems at a fixed price under customary terms and conditions. The sensing system units sold under these agreements are typically prototypes that are used by the customer for its research, development, evaluation, pilot, or testing purposes. Aeva also enters into non-recurring engineering service arrangements with certain of its customers to customize Aevas perception solution to meet customer specific requirements. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue principally includes direct material, direct labor and allocation of overhead associated with manufacturing operations, including inbound freight charges and depreciation expense. Cost of revenue also includes the direct cost and appropriate allocation of overhead involved in execution of non-recurring engineering services. Aevas gross profit (loss) equals total revenue less total cost of revenue. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Aevas research and development efforts are focused on enhancing and developing additional functionality for its existing products and on new product development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of: Personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, for personnel in Aevas research and engineering functions; and Expenses related to materials, software licenses, supplies, and third-party services. Aeva recognizes research and development expenses as incurred. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas executive, finance, information systems, human resources, and legal, as well as legal and accounting fees for professional and contract services. Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas business development team as well as advertising and marketing expenses. These include the cost of trade shows, promotional materials, and public relations. 20 Table of Contents Aevas operating expenses will remain similar to the fiscal year 2023 or slightly increase in 2024 as we continue to execute on our goals and product roadmap. Interest income and Interest expense Interest income consists primarily of income earned on Aevas cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Interest income will vary based on Aevas cash equivalents and marketable securities balance and changes in the interest rates. Other income and expense Other income and expense primarily consist of changes in the fair value of private placement warrants and Series A warrants, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and realized gains and losses on marketable securities. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this quarterly statement. The following table sets forth Aevas results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 2,107 $ 1,148 959 84 % Cost of revenue 3,499 2,529 970 38 % Gross loss (1,392 ) (1,381 ) (11 ) 1 % Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 25,012 25,454 (442 ) (2 )% General and administrative expenses 8,411 7,833 578 7 % Selling and marketing expenses 2,529 2,598 (69 ) (3 )% Total operating expenses 35,952 35,885 67 0 % Loss from operations (37,344 ) (37,266 ) (78 ) 0 % Interest income 2,458 2,064 394 19 % Other income (expense), net (439 ) 28 (467 ) (1669 )% Net loss before taxes (35,326 ) (35,174 ) (152 ) 0 % Income tax provision - Net loss $ (35,326 ) $ (35,174 ) (152 ) 0 % Revenue Revenue increased by approximately $1.0 million or 84% during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to a $0.8 million increase in the sale of prototype units sold during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31 2023. The revenue related to non-recurring engineering services, which is dependent upon the timing of the work performed for our customers also increased by $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in average selling price per unit for the prototype units. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased by approximately $1.0 million or 38%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, from the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in number of units sold during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31 2023 and also due to increase in cost of revenue related to non-recurring engineering services. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Research and development expenses decreased by approximately $0.4 million, or 2%, to $25.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $25.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease of $2.1 million in research material expenses related to product development, this was partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in payroll related expenses, a $0.5 million increase in service costs, and a $0.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization. 21 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased by approximately $0.6 million, or 7%, to $8.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increases in payroll related expense of $0.7 million, and professional fees expenses of $0.3 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in insurance expenses of $0.4 million. Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses decreased by approximately $0.1 million, or 3%, to $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in payroll related expenses of $0.3 million, this was partially offset by an increase in marketing related expenses of $0.2 million. Interest income Interest income increased by $0.4 million, or 19%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to change in our investment portfolio, as the Company invested in higher interest bearing securities on the maturity of certain securities during three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was partially offset by change in the overall balance of marketable securities. Other income (expense), net Other income decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to the change in the fair value of Series A warrant liability. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Aevas capital requirements will depend on many factors, including sales volume, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of March 31, 2024, Aeva had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $189.3 million. On November 8, 2023, the Company entered into Subscription Agreements providing for the purchase of common stock resulting in net proceeds of $20.6 million (November PIPE). Also on November 8, 2023, the Company entered into a Standby Equity Purchase Agreement (the Facility Agreement) with entities affiliated with Sylebra. Pursuant to the Facility Agreement, the Company will have the right, but not the obligation, to sell to Sylebra up to $125.0 million shares of its preferred stock, at the Companys request until November 8, 2026. Each sale the Company requests under the Facility Agreement may be for a number of shares of preferred stock with an aggregate value of at least $25.0 million but not more than $50.0 million (except with Sylebras consent). The Company paid Sylebra a facility fee in the amount of $2.5 million, an origination fee in the amount of $0.6 million, and an administrative fee in the amount of $0.3 million and reimbursed $0.4 million to Sylebra for its fees and expenses. In addition, the Company issued to Sylebra a Series A Warrants to purchase 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $5.00. Aeva expects current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund its near term cash needs but will be required to raise additional capital or draw on the Facility Agreement (see Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements) unless Aeva is able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of its products to cover operating expense, working capital and capital expenditures. Aeva has incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and losses from operations in the past as reflected in its accumulated deficit of $494.9 million as of March 31, 2024. Aeva expects to continue to incur operating losses due to continued investments that it intends to make in its business, including development of products. Aeva believes that existing cash and cash equivalent and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund operating and capital expenditure requirements through at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these financial statements. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (30,962 ) $ (36,012 ) Cash provided by investing activities 22,036 419 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (16 ) 37 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (8,942 ) $ (35,556 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $31.0 million, attributable to a net loss of $35.3 million and a net change in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $7.3 million. Non-cash charges 22 Table of Contents primarily consisted of $5.3 million in stock-based compensation, $1.3 million in depreciation and amortization expense, $0.9 million in amortization of right of use assets, $0.5 million in impairment of inventory and $0.4 million in change in the fair value of warrant liabilities partially offset by $1.1 million in amortization of premium and accretion of discount on available for sale securities. The increase in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million was primarily due to a $3.6 million decrease in accrued employee costs, a $0.9 million decrease on lease liability, a $0.4 million increase in accounts receivable and a $0.3 million increase in inventory, this was offset by a $1.9 million increase in other current liabilities and a $0.4 million decrease in other current and non-current assets. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $22.0 million, attributable to maturity of available-for-sale investments of $62.5 million, partially offset by purchase of investments of $38.9 million and purchase of property, plant and equipment of $1.6 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used by financing activities was attributable to a $0.04 million proceeds from stock option exercises, offset by $0.06 million of payments of taxes withheld on net settled vesting of restricted stock units. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2024, Aeva has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Aeva prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts Aeva reports as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. Aeva bases its estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Aevas actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Aeva believes that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding its historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. For a more detailed discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 and Note 1 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Note 1 to Aevas financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 23 Table of Contents