Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of Aevas results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon Aevas current expectations, estimates, and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to, among other considerations, the matters discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the 2024 Form 10-K) under the heading Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to we, our, us the Company or Aeva refer to the business of Aeva Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. On March 18, 2024, we filed a Certificate of Amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Amendment) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to effect a 1-for-5 reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of shares of common stock, $0.0001 par value (the common stock). Pursuant to the Reverse Stock Split, every five (5) shares of issued and outstanding shares of common stock were combined into one (1) share of common stock. All share and per share amounts presented herein have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. There was no change to the shares authorized or in the par value per share of common stock of $0.0001. The Reverse Stock Split affected all stockholders uniformly and did not alter any stockholders percentage interest in the Companys equity. The Company did not issue fractional shares in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Stockholders who were otherwise entitled to fractional shares of common stock were instead entitled to receive a proportional cash payment. The number of shares of common stock issuable under our equity incentive plans and exercisable under the outstanding warrants were also proportionately adjusted. Overview Our vision is to bring perception to broad applications. Through our Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave ("FMCW") sensing technology, we believe we are introducing the worlds first 4D LiDAR-on-chip that, along with our proprietary software applications, has the potential to enable the adoption of LIDAR across broad applications. Founded in 2017 by former Apple engineers Soroush Salehian and Mina Rezk and led by a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators experienced in the field of sensing and perception, Aevas mission is to bring the next wave of perception technology to broad applications from automated driving to industrial automation, consumer device applications, and security. Our 4D LiDAR-on-chip combines silicon photonics technology that is proven in the telecom industry with precise instant velocity measurements and long-range performance for commercialization. As a development stage company, we work closely with our customers on the development and commercialization of their programs and the utilization of our products in such programs. Thus far, our customers have purchased prototype products and engineering services from us for use in their research and development programs. We are expanding our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers to meet our customers anticipated demand for the production of our products. Unlike legacy 3D LiDAR, which relies on Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology and measures only depth and reflectivity, Aevas solution leverages a proprietary FMCW technology to measure velocity in addition to depth, reflectivity and inertial motion. We believe the ability of Aevas solution to measure instant velocity for every pixel is a significant advantage over ToF-based sensing solutions. Furthermore, Aevas technology is free from interference from other LiDAR and sunlight, and our core innovations within FMCW are intended to enable autonomous vehicles to see at significantly higher distances of up to 500 meters. We believe Aeva is uniquely positioned to provide a superior solution with the potential to enable higher level of automation for vehicles. Furthermore, we believe the advantages of our 4D LiDAR-on-chip allow us to provide the first LiDAR solution that is fully integrated onto a chip with superior performance at scale, with the potential to drive new categories of perception across industrial automation, consumer devices, and security markets. Key Factors Affecting Aevas Operating Results We believe that Aeva's future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on our ability to capitalize opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of the 2024 Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Pricing, Product Cost and Margins. Our pricing and margins will depend on the volumes and the features, as well as specific market applications of the solutions we provide to our customers. We have customers with technologies in various stages of development across different market segments. We anticipate that our prices will vary by market and application due to market-specific product and commercial requirements, supply and demand dynamics and product lifecycles. Aevas future performance will depend on our ability to deliver on economies of scale. Our customers will require that our perception solutions be manufactured and sold at per-unit prices that are competitive. Our ability to compete in key markets will depend on the success of our efforts to efficiently and reliably produce cost-effective perception solutions that are competitively priced and affordable for our commercial-stage customers. Additionally, the macroeconomic conditions in the industry, the growing emergence of competition in advanced assisted driving sensing and software technologies globally can negatively impact pricing, margins and market share. Our business is impacted by various macroeconomic factors, including inflation, interest rates, levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, fuel and energy costs, and other economic conditions. In addition, we are susceptible to supply chain disruptions, which may be exacerbated by changes to tariffs and trade policies. Given the nature of these macroeconomic factors, we cannot predict whether or for how long certain trends will continue, nor can we predict to what degree these trends will impact us in the future. If we do not generate the margins we expect upon commercialization of our perception solutions, we may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. 21 Table of Contents Commercialization of LiDAR-based Applications. We expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future as our customers continue on research and development projects and begin to commercialize advanced driver assist, autonomous and industrial automation solutions that rely on LiDAR technology. The development cycles of our products with new customers varies widely depending on the application, market, customer and the complexity of the product, and can vary from several months to seven or more years depending on the industry. These development cycles result in us investing our resources prior to realizing any revenue from the commercialization or obtaining any firm commitments of pricing, volume or timing of purchases of our products by our customers. As customers reach the commercialization phase and as the market for LiDAR solutions matures, these fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Sales Volume. Each product program will have an expected range of sales volumes, depending on the end market demand for our customers products as well as market application. This can depend on several factors, including market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In addition to end market demand, sales volumes also depend on whether our customer is in the development or production phase. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts or strategic customer pricing on sales of our solutions, which may or may not be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes which in turn could adversely impact our gross margins. Aevas ability to ultimately achieve profitability is dependent upon progression of existing relationships to production and our ability to meet required volumes and required cost targets and gross margins. Delays of our current and future customers programs could result in Aeva being unable to achieve our revenue targets and profitability in the time frame we anticipate. Such delays could result in Aeva requiring to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous or highly dilutive to our stockholders. Basis of Presentation Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Revenue consists of sales of perception solutions or sensing systems and non-recurring engineering services. Aeva is engaged in design, manufacturing and sale of LiDAR sensing systems and related perception and autonomy-enabling software solutions serving customers in automotive, industrial, and other markets. Under our customer agreements, Aeva delivers a specified number of sensing systems at a fixed price under customary terms and conditions. The sensing system units sold under these agreements are typically prototypes that are used by the customer for its research, development, evaluation, pilot, or testing purposes. We also enter into non-recurring engineering service arrangements with certain of our customers to customize Aevas perception solution to meet customer specific requirements. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue principally includes direct material, direct labor and allocation of overhead associated with manufacturing operations, including inbound freight charges and depreciation expense. Cost of revenue also includes the direct cost and appropriate allocation of overhead involved in execution of non-recurring engineering services. Aevas gross profit equals total revenue less total cost of revenue. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Aevas research and development efforts are focused on enhancing and developing additional functionality for our existing products and on new product development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of: Personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, for personnel in Aevas research and engineering functions; and Expenses related to materials, software licenses, supplies, and third-party services. Aeva recognizes research and development expenses as incurred. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas executive, finance, information systems, human resources, and legal teams, as well as legal and accounting fees for professional and contract services. 22 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas business development team as well as advertising and marketing expenses. These include the cost of trade shows, promotional materials, and public relations. Interest income and interest expense Interest income consists primarily of income earned on Aevas cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Interest income varies based on Aevas cash equivalents and marketable securities balance and changes in the interest rates. Other income and expense Other income and expense primarily consist of changes in the fair value of Series A warrants, fair value of private placement warrants and foreign currency transaction gains and losses, as well as realized gains and losses on marketable securities. Results of Operations The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025, and 2024 The following table sets forth Aevas results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 3,368 $ 2,107 $ 1,261 60 % Cost of revenue 3,058 3,499 (441 ) (13 )% Gross profit (loss) 310 (1,392 ) 1,702 (122 )% Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 21,569 25,012 (3,443 ) (14 )% General and administrative expenses 7,217 8,411 (1,194 ) (14 )% Selling and marketing expenses 1,942 2,529 (587 ) (23 )% Total operating expenses 30,728 35,952 (5,224 ) (15 )% Loss from operations (30,418 ) (37,344 ) 6,926 (19 )% Interest income 1,007 2,457 (1,450 ) (59 )% Other income (expense), net (5,399 ) (439 ) (4,960 ) 1130 % Net loss before taxes (34,810 ) (35,326 ) 516 (1 )% Income tax provision 57 57 100 % Net loss $ (34,867 ) $ (35,326 ) $ 459 (1 )% Revenue Revenue increased by $1.3 million or 60% during the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily due to an increase in the total number of units sold and an increase in non-recurring engineering revenue recognized during the current period, which is dependent upon the timing of the work performed for our customers. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $0.4 million or 13%, during the three months ended March 31, 2025, from the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the production cost related to units sold during the current period as compared to the prior period. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Research and development expenses decreased by $3.4 million, or 14%, to $21.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $25.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to a $2.2 million decrease in payroll related expense, a $1.0 million decrease in stock based compensation expense, a $0.2 million decrease in research and development material expense, a $0.3 million decrease in consulting expense, and a $0.1 million decrease in travel expense, partially offset by a $0.4 million increase in software license expense. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses decreased by $1.2 million, or 14%, to $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $8.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to a $0.5 million decrease in payroll related expense, a $0.6 million decrease in professional fee expense, a $0.2 million decrease in insurance expense, a $0.2 million decrease in other employee related expense and a $0.2 million decrease in legal fees, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in stock based compensation expense. Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses decreased by $0.6 million, or 23%, to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in marketing expense by $0.4 million and payroll related expense by $0.2 million. Interest income Interest income decreased by $1.5 million, or 59%, during the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was due to a decrease in the overall balance of interest-bearing cash equivalents and marketable securities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net changed by $5.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 primarily due to an increase in the fair value of Series A warrants. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Aevas capital requirements will depend on many factors, including production capacity and sales volume, the timing and spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. On November 8, 2023, we entered into subscription agreements providing for the purchase of common stock resulting in net proceeds of $20.6 million. Also on November 8, 2023, we entered into a Standby Equity Purchase Agreement (as amended from time to time, the Facility Agreement) with entities affiliated with Sylebra. Pursuant to the Facility Agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell to Sylebra up to $125.0 million of shares of preferred stock, at our request until November 8, 2026, subject to the terms of the Facility Agreement and the satisfaction of certain conditions as described in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Each sale we request under the Facility Agreement may be for a number of shares of preferred stock with an aggregate value of at least $25.0 million but not more than $50.0 million (except with Sylebras consent). We paid Sylebra a facility fee of $2.5 million, an origination fee of $0.6 million, and an administrative fee of $0.3 million and reimbursed $0.4 million to Sylebra for its fees and expenses. In addition, we issued to Sylebra Series A warrants to purchase 3,000,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.00. On July 2, 2024, Aeva and the parties to the Delaware Stockholder Litigation entered into a term sheet, and on December 6, 2024 entered into a formal settlement agreement, which will be subject to court approval, to fully and finally resolve the Delaware Stockholder Litigation. In connection with the settlement, we have agreed to pay a total settlement cost of $14.0 million in exchange for a release of all claims related to the business combination and expect to recover $2.5 million from insurance carrier. The settlement is being paid pursuant to our indemnification obligations and from available director and officer insurance policies. As of December 31, 2024, we have accrued a contingent liability of $14.0 million connection with the settlement of the Delaware Stockholder Litigation, and a $2.5 million insurance recovery. See Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information about the Delaware Stockholder Litigation. To date, we have incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and incurred losses from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $646.7 million as of March 31, 2025. We expect to continue to incur operating losses due to continued investments that we intend to make in our business, including development of products. As of March 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $81.0 million. We also have the ability to draw on the Facility Agreement up to $125.0 million through November 8, 2026 in exchange for the issuance of preferred shares, and we intend to draw down on the Facility Agreement if and as required by our capital needs. As of March 31, 2025, all conditions to draw under the Facility Agreement were met. We believe that our liquidity, including financing available to us through the Facility Agreement, will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital expenditure for at least 12 months from the date of issuance of the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 24 Table of Contents Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (30,792 ) $ (30,962 ) Cash provided by investing activities 23,322 22,036 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (183 ) (16 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (7,653 ) $ (8,942 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in operating activities was $30.8 million, attributable to a net loss of $34.9 million and a net change in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.7 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $11.8 million. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $4.6 million in stock-based compensation, $1.4 million in depreciation and amortization expense, $0.9 million in amortization of right of use assets and $5.4 million change in the fair value of warrant liability, partially offset by a $0.5 million in accretion of discount on available for sale securities. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $3.2 million decrease in other current liabilities, a $2.5 million decrease in accounts payable, a $1.6 million increase in inventories, a $1.1 million decrease in accrued employee costs, a $1.0 million decrease in lease liability, a $0.4 million decrease in accrued liabilities, and $0.2 million increase in other non-current assets, partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in other current assets and a $0.4 million decrease in accounts receivable. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by investing activities was $23.3 million, attributable to maturity of available-for-sale investments of $40.0 million, partially offset by purchase of investments of $16.0 million and purchase of property, plant and equipment of $0.5 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities was attributable to payment of taxes withheld on net settled vesting of restricted stock units. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2025, Aeva has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts Aeva reports as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Aevas actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. For a more detailed discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to our 2024 Form 10-K and Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 25 Table of Contents