Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of Aevas results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in the financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion may contain forward-lookingstatements based upon Aevas current expectations, estimates, and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-lookingstatements due to, among other considerations, the matters discussed in Part I, Item 1A of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K) under the heading Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-LookingStatements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to we, our, us the Company or Aeva refer to the business of Aeva Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. Overview Our vision is to bring perception to broad applications. Through our FMCW sensing technology, we believe we are introducing the worlds first 4D LiDAR-on-chip that, along with our proprietary software applications, has the potential to enable the adoption of LIDAR across broad applications. Founded in 2017 by former Apple engineers Soroush Salehian and Mina Rezk and led by a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators experienced in the field of sensing and perception, Aevas mission is to bring the next wave of perception technology to broad applications from automated driving to industrial automation, consumer device applications, and security. Our 4D LiDAR-on-chip combines silicon photonics technology that is proven in the telecom industry with precise instant velocity measurements and long-range performance for commercialization. As a development stage company, we work closely with our customers on the development and commercialization of their programs and the utilization of our products in such programs. Thus far, our customers have purchased prototype products and engineering services from us for use in their research and development programs. We are expanding our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers to meet our customers anticipated demand for the production of our products. Unlike legacy 3D LiDAR, which relies on Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology and measures only depth and reflectivity, Aevas solution leverages a proprietary FMCW technology to measure velocity in addition to depth, reflectivity and inertial motion. We believe the ability of Aevas solution to measure instant velocity for every pixel is a major advantage over ToF-based sensing solutions. Furthermore, Aevas technology is free from interference from other LiDAR and sunlight, and our core innovations within FMCW are intended to enable autonomous vehicles to see at significantly higher distances of up to 500 meters. We believe Aeva is uniquely positioned to provide a superior solution with the potential to enable higher level of automation for vehicles. Furthermore, we believe the advantages of our 4D LiDAR-on-chip allow us to provide the first LiDAR solution that is fully integrated onto a chip with superior performance at scale, with the potential to drive new categories of perception across industrial automation, consumer devices, and security markets. Key Factors Affecting Aevas Operating Results Aeva believes that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on its ability to capitalize on the following opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of the 2022 Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Pricing, Product Cost and Margins. Our pricing and margins will depend on the volumes and the features, as well as specific market applications of the solutions we provide to our customers. We have customers with technologies in various stages of development across different market segments. We anticipate that our prices will vary by market and application due to market-specific product and commercial requirements, supply and demand dynamics and product lifecycles. Aeva's future performance will depend on its ability to deliver on economies of scale with lower product costs to enable industry adoption. Aeva believes its business model is positioned for scalability due to the ability to leverage the same product platform across markets and customer base, relationships with leading foundries and contract manufacturers. Our customers will require that our perception solutions be manufactured and sold at per-unit prices that are competitive. Our ability to compete in key markets will depend on the success of our efforts to efficiently and reliably produce cost-effective perception solutions that are competitively priced and affordable for our commercial-stage customers. Additionally, the macroeconomic conditions in the industry, the growing emergence of competition in advanced assisted driving sensing and software technologies globally can negatively impact pricing, margins and market share. If Aeva does not generate the margins it expects upon commercialization of its perception solutions, Aeva may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. Commercialization of LiDAR-based Applications. We expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future as our customers continue on research and development projects and begin to commercialize advanced driver assist, autonomous and industrial automation solutions that rely on LiDAR technology. As more customers reach the commercialization phase and as the market for LiDAR solutions matures, these fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. 17 Table of Contents Sales Volume. Each product program will have an expected range of sales volumes, depending on the end market demand for our customers products as well as market application. This can depend on several factors, including market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In addition to end market demand, sales volumes also depend on whether our customer is in the development or production phase. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts or strategic customer pricing on sales of our solutions, which may or may not be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes which in turn could adversely impact our gross margins. Aevas ability to ultimately achieve profitability is dependent upon progression of existing relationships to production and our ability to meet required volumes and required cost targets and gross margins. Delays of our current and future customers programs could result in Aeva being unable to achieve its revenue targets and profitability in the time frame it anticipates. Such delays could result in Aeva requiring to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. Basis of Presentation Aeva currently conducts its business through one operating segment. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Revenue consists of sales of perception solutions or sensing systems and non-recurring engineering services. Aeva is engaged in design, manufacturing and sale of LiDAR sensing systems and related perception and autonomy-enabling software solutions serving customers in automotive, industrial, and other markets. Under the customer agreements, Aeva delivers a specified number of sensing systems at a fixed price under customary terms and conditions. The sensing system units sold under these agreements are typically prototypes that are used by the customer for its research, development, evaluation, pilot, or testing purposes. Aeva also enters into non-recurring engineering service arrangements with certain of its customers to customize Aevas perception solution to meet customer specific requirements. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue principally includes direct material, direct labor and allocation of overhead associated with manufacturing operations, including inbound freight charges and depreciation expense. Cost of revenue also includes the direct cost and appropriate allocation of overhead involved in execution of non-recurring engineering services. Aevas gross profit equals total revenue less total cost of revenue. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Aevas research and development efforts are focused on enhancing and developing additional functionality for its existing products and on new product development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of: Personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, for personnel in Aevas research and engineering functions; and Expenses related to materials, software licenses, supplies, and third-party services. Aeva recognizes research and development expenses as incurred. Aeva expects its research and development expenses to remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly in the foreseeable future as it continues to invest in research and development activities to achieve its product roadmap. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas executive, finance, information systems, human resources, and legal, as well as legal and accounting fees for professional and contract services. Aeva expects its general and administrative expenses to remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly in the foreseeable future as it scales headcount with the growth of its business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas business development team as well as advertising and marketing expenses. These include the cost of trade shows, promotional materials, and public relations. Aeva expects to increase its sales and marketing activities and expand customer relationships. Aeva expects that its sales and marketing expenses will remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly over time as it continues to grow its sales force and increase marketing efforts. 18 Table of Contents Interest income and Interest expense Interest income consists primarily of income earned on Aevas cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Interest income will vary based on Aevas cash equivalents and marketable securities balance and changes in the interest rates. Other income and expense Other income and expense primarily consist of changes in the fair value of private placement warrants, foreign currency conversion gains and losses, and realized gains and losses on marketable securities. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023, and 2022 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this quarterly statement. The following table sets forth Aevas results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 1,148 $ 1,137 11 1 % Cost of revenue 2,529 1,375 1,154 84 % Gross loss (1,381 ) (238 ) (1,143 ) 480 % Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 25,454 25,315 139 1 % General and administrative expenses 7,833 6,872 961 14 % Selling and marketing expenses 2,598 1,648 950 58 % Total operating expenses 35,885 33,835 2,050 6 % Loss from operations (37,266 ) (34,073 ) (3,193 ) 9 % Interest income 2,064 283 1,781 629 % Other income, net 28 633 (605 ) (96 )% Net loss before taxes (35,174 ) (33,157 ) (2,017 ) 6 % Income tax provision - Net loss $ (35,174 ) $ (33,157 ) (2,017 ) 6 % Revenue Revenue increased marginally during the three months year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to increase in revenue from the sale of prototype units sold during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This was partially offset by a decrease in the activity related to non-recurring engineering services, which is dependent upon the timing of the work performed for our customers. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased by $1.2 million or 84%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, from the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in manufacturing overhead costs due to scaling of third-party contract manufacturing, and an increase in number of units sold during period ended March 31, 2023. This was partially offset by the impairment of inventory of $0.7 million recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Operating expenses Research and development expenses Total research and development expenses increased marginally by $0.1 million, or 1%, to $25.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $25.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Research and development expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $1.1 million in payroll expenses, primarily resulting from continued expansion for product development. This was partially offset by a decrease in consulting and professional services of $1.0 million. General and administrative expenses Total general and administrative expense increased by $1.0 million, or 14%, to $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. General and administrative expense increased primarily due to an increase in the employee related costs. Payroll related expenses increased by $0.5 million, other employee related expense increased by $0.5 million and depreciation expense increased by $0.3 million, this was partially offset by a decrease in the professional service costs by $0.3 million. 19 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expenses Total selling and marketing expense increased by $1.0 million, or 58%, to $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to an increase in marketing related expense of $0.4 million, an increase in payroll expenses of $0.5 million driven by additional headcount and an increase in professional services of $0.1 million. Interest income Interest income increased by $1.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to an increase in the interest rate during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Other income, net Other income decreased by $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to change in in the fair value of private placement warrant liability which was recorded as other income. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Aevas capital requirements will depend on many factors, including sales volume, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of March 31, 2023, Aeva had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $288.4 million. Aeva expects its current cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, to fund its near term cash needs but will be required to raise additional capital unless Aeva is able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of its products to cover anticipated operating expense, working capital and capital expenditures. Any additional equity securities issued may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of the Companys common stock. If Aeva raises funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of common stockholders. The terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on Aevas operations. Further, the current macroeconomic environment may make it difficult for us to raise capital on terms favorable to us or at all. The credit market and financial services industry have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of uncertainty and other risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors that could impact the availability and cost of equity and debt financing. Aeva has incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and losses from operations in the past as reflected in its accumulated deficit of $345.4 million as of March 31, 2023. Aeva expects to continue to incur operating losses due to continued investments that it intends to make in its business, including development of products. Aeva believes that existing cash and cash equivalent and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund operating and capital expenditure requirements through at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these financial statements. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (36,012 ) $ (26,538 ) Cash provided by investing activities 419 22,040 Cash provided by financing activities 37 187 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (35,556 ) $ (4,311 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $36.0 million, attributable to a net loss of $35.2 million and a net change in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.9 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $7.0 million. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $6.0 million in stock-based compensation, $1.0 million in depreciation and amortization expense, $0.7 million in amortization of right of use assets, partially offset by $0.6 million in amortization of premium and accretion of discount on available for sale securities. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $0.4 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $0.8 million decrease in other current assets due to timing of billing and cash collections, a $1.7 million decrease in accounts payable, a $5.2 million decrease in accrued liabilities, a $1.3 million decrease in accrued employee cost due to bonus payment and a $0.7 million decrease in lease liability, partially offset by a $0.1 million increase in inventory. 20 Table of Contents Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by used in investing activities was $0.4 million, attributable to maturity of available-for-sale investments of $56.2 million, partially offset by purchase of investments of $54.5 million and purchase of property, plant and equipment of $1.3 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities was attributable to proceeds from stock option exercises. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2023, Aeva has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Aeva prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts Aeva reports as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. Aeva bases its estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Aevas actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Aeva believes that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding its historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. For a more detailed discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 and Note 1 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to Aevas financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 21 Table of Contents