Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or in other parts of this report. A discussion and analysis regarding our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 is presented below. Discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 is not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. Overview Our vision is to bring perception to broad applications. Through our FMCW sensing technology, we believe we are introducing the worlds first 4D LiDAR-on-chip that, along with our proprietary software applications, has the potential to enable the adoption of LIDAR across broad applications. Founded in 2017 by former Apple engineers Soroush Salehian and Mina Rezk and led by a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators experienced in the field of sensing and perception, Aevas mission is to bring the next wave of perception technology to broad applications from automated driving to industrial automation, consumer device applications, and security. Our 4D LiDAR-on-chip combines silicon photonics technology that is proven in the telecom industry with precise instant velocity measurements and long-range performance for commercialization. On March 12, 2021, Aeva, Inc. consummated a business combination (the Business Combination) with InterPrivate Acquisition Corp. (the Companys predecessor, which was originally incorporated in Delaware as a special purpose acquisition company (IPV)) pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement dated as of November 2, 2020 (the BCA), by and among IPV, WLLY Merger Sub Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of IPV, and Aeva, Inc. Immediately upon the consummation of the Business Combination, WLLY Merger Sub Corp. merged with and into Aeva, Inc., with Aeva, Inc. surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of IPV. IPV changed its name to Aeva Technologies, Inc. and the pre-combination Aeva retained its name of Aeva, Inc. As a development stage company, we work closely with our customers on the development and commercialization of their programs and the utilization of our products in such programs. Thus far, our customers have purchased prototype products and engineering services from us for use in their research and development programs. We are expanding our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers to meet our customers anticipated demand for the production of our products. Unlike legacy 3D LiDAR, which relies on Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology and measures only depth and reflectivity, Aevas solution leverages a proprietary FMCW technology to measure velocity in addition to depth, reflectivity and inertial motion. We believe the ability of Aevas solution to measure instant velocity for every pixel is a major advantage over ToF-based sensing solutions. Furthermore, Aevas technology is free from interference from other LiDAR and sunlight, and our core innovations within FMCW are intended to enable autonomous vehicles to see at significantly higher distances of up to 500 meters. We believe Aeva is uniquely positioned to provide a superior solution with the potential to enable higher level of automation for vehicles. Furthermore, we believe the advantages of our 4D LiDAR-on-chip allow us to provide the first LiDAR solution that is fully integrated onto a chip with superior performance at scale, with the potential to drive new categories of perception across industrial automation, consumer devices, and security markets. 49 Business Combination and Public Company Costs The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). Under this method of accounting, IPV was treated as the legal acquirer and accounting acquiree. Accordingly, the business combination was treated as the equivalent of Aeva, Inc, issuing stock for the net assets of IPV, accompanied by a recapitalization. The most significant change in the Companys financial position and results of the business combination was an increase in cash of $513.1 million. Total non-recurring transaction costs incurred for this transaction were $47.7 million. Upon the closing of the Business Combination, the Company's common stock and warrants began trading under the ticker symbols AEVA and AEVA.WS on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). We anticipate that we will continue to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. We have incurred and expect to incur additional annual expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees and additional internal and external accounting and legal and administrative resources, including increased audit and legal fees. COVID-19 Impact The extent of the impact of the pandemic related to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) on Aevas operational and financial performance will depend on various future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and impact on its customers, suppliers, and employees, all of which is uncertain at this time. Aeva expects the COVID-19 pandemic to adversely impact revenue and results of operations, but Aeva is unable to predict at this time the size and duration of this adverse impact. For more information on Aevas operations and risks related to health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, please see the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Risk Factors. Key Factors Affecting Aevas Operating Results Aeva believes that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on its ability to capitalize opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Risk Factors. Pricing, Product Cost and Margins. Our pricing and margins will depend on the volumes and the features as well as specific market applications of the solutions we provide to our customers. We have customers with technologies in various stages of development across different market segments. We anticipate that our prices will vary by market and application due to market-specific product and commercial requirements, supply and demand dynamics and product lifecycles. Aeva's future performance will depend on its ability to deliver on economies of scale with lower product costs to enable industry adoption. Aeva believes its business model is positioned for scalability due to the ability to leverage the same product platform across markets and customer base, relationships with leading foundries and contract manufacturers. Our customers will require that our perception solutions be manufactured and sold at per-unit prices that are competitive. Our ability to compete in key markets will depend on the success of our efforts to efficiently and reliably produce cost-effective perception solutions that are competitively priced and affordable for our commercial-stage customers. Additionally, the macroeconomic conditions in the industry, the growing emergence of competition in advanced assisted driving sensing and software technologies globally can negatively impact pricing, margins and market share. If Aeva does not generate the margins it expects upon commercialization of its perception solutions, Aeva may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. 50 Commercialization of LiDAR-based Applications. We expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future as our customers continue on research and development projects and begin to commercialize advanced driver assist, autonomous and industrial automation solutions that rely on LiDAR technology. As more customers reach the commercialization phase and as the market for LiDAR solutions matures, these fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Sales Volume . Each product program will have an expected range of sales volumes, depending on the end market demand for our customers products as well as market application. This can depend on several factors, including market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In addition to end market demand, sales volumes also depend on whether our customer is in the development or production phase. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts or strategic customer pricing on sales of our solutions, which may or may not be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes which in turn could adversely impact our gross margins. Aevas ability to ultimately achieve profitability is dependent upon progression of existing relationships to production and our ability to meet required volumes and required cost targets and gross margins. Delays of our current and future customers programs could result in Aeva being unable to achieve its revenue targets and profitability in the time frame it anticipates. Such delays could result in Aeva requiring to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Aevas stockholders. Basis of Presentation Aeva currently conducts its business through one operating segment. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Revenue consists of sales of perception solutions or sensing systems and non-recurring engineering services. Aeva is engaged in design, manufacturing and sale of LiDAR sensing systems and related perception and autonomy-enabling software solutions serving customers in automotive, industrial, and other markets. Under the customer agreements, Aeva delivers a specified number of sensing systems at a fixed price under customary terms and conditions. The sensing system units sold under these agreements are typically prototypes that are used by the customer for its research, development, evaluation, pilot, or testing purposes. Aeva also enters into non-recurring engineering service arrangements with certain of its customers to customize Aevas perception solution to meet customer specific requirements. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue principally includes direct material, direct labor and allocation of overhead associated with manufacturing operations, including inbound freight charges and depreciation expense. Cost of revenue also includes the direct cost and appropriate allocation of overhead involved in execution of non-recurring engineering services. Aevas gross profit equals total revenue less total cost of revenue. Operating expenses Research and development Aevas research and development efforts are focused on enhancing and developing additional functionality for its existing products and on new product development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of: Personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, for personnel in Aevas research and engineering functions; and Expenses related to materials, software licenses, supplies, and third-party services. 51 Aeva expenses research and development costs as incurred. Aeva expects its research and development costs to remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly in the foreseeable future as it continues to invest in research and development activities to achieve its product roadmap. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas executive, finance, information systems, human resources, and legal, as well as legal and accounting fees for professional and contract services. Aeva expects its general and administrative expenses to remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly in the foreseeable future as it scales headcount with the growth of its business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel and personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense of Aevas business development team as well as advertising and marketing expenses. These include the cost of trade shows, promotional materials, and public relations. Aeva expects to increase its sales and marketing activities and expand customer relationships. Aeva expects that its sales and marketing expenses will remain at same level as fiscal 2022 or increase slightly over time as it continues to grow its sales force and increase marketing efforts. Interest income and Interest expense Interest income consists primarily of income earned on Aevas cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Interest income will vary based on Aevas cash equivalents and marketable securities balance and changes in the interest rates. Other income and expense Other income and expense primarily consist of changes in the fair value of private placement warrants, foreign currency conversion gains and losses, and realized gain/loss on marketable securities. 52 Results of Operations Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table sets forth Aevas results of operations data for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue 4,192 9,265 (5,072 ) (55 )% Cost of revenue 8,447 5,833 2,614 45 % Gross profit (loss) (4,255 ) 3,432 (7,686 ) (224 )% Operating expenses: Research and development 109,587 74,768 34,819 47 % General and administrative expenses 31,070 28,407 2,663 9 % Selling and marketing expenses 7,043 4,443 2,600 59 % Total operating expenses 147,700 107,618 40,082 37 % Net loss before income taxes (151,955 ) (104,186 ) (47,768 ) 46 % Interest income 3,707 372 3,335 897 % Other income (expense), net 943 1,936 (993 ) (51 )% Net loss before taxes (147,305 ) (101,878 ) (45,426 ) 45 % Income tax provision Net loss $ (147,305 ) $ (101,878 ) $ (45,426 ) 45 % Revenue Revenue decreased by $5.1 million, or 55%, to $4.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, from $9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the activity related to non-recurring engineering services which is dependent upon the timing of the work performed for our customers and also due to an adjustment of $3.9 million for an existing customers contract modification due to customers roadmap revision towards less customization. This was partially offset by increase in the sale of prototype units sold in 2022 as compared to 2021. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased by $2.6 million, or 45%, to $8.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, from $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in costs was primarily due to an inventory impairment of $1.7 million, increase in manufacturing overhead costs due to scaling of third-party contract manufacturing, and increase in number of units sold during year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. This was partially offset by the lower cost of goods sold, and lower cost related to the non-recurring services revenue. Operating expenses Research and development Total research and development expense increased by $34.8 million, or 47%, to $109.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, from $74.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Research and development expenses increased primarily due to an increase in employee expenses related to product development headcount. Payroll expenses increased by $18.7 million, stock-based compensation expenses increased by $4.8 million, material, software licenses, and service related expenses increased by $4.6 million, consulting cost increased by $3.5 million, facility expenses increased by $1.5 million, depreciation increased by $0.9 million, and travel related expenses increased by $0.8 million. 53 General and administrative Total general and administrative expense increased by $2.7 million, or 9%, to $31.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, from $28.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. General and administrative expense increased primarily due to an increase in employee expenses as a result of increased headcount to support our growth and expansion. Payroll expenses increased by $2.4 million, other employee expenses increased by $0.9 million, depreciation and amortization increase by $0.9 million, other equipment and facility expenses increased by $0.6 million, insurance expenses increased by $0.5 million, recruiting and related expenses increased by $0.4 million, legal expenses increased by $0.4 million and miscellaneous expenses increased by $0.3 million; this was partially offset by decreases in stock-based compensation expenses by $2.7 million and accounting services expenses by $1.0 million. Selling and marketing Total selling and marketing expense increased by $2.6 million, or 59%, to $7.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, from $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Selling and marketing expense increased as we continued to grow our sales force and increase our marketing efforts. Payroll expenses increased by $1.9 million, stock-based compensation expenses increased by $0.5 million, marketing program cost increased by $0.3 million, travel expenses increased by $0.3 million, and facility expense increase by $0.1 million; this was partially offset by decrease in conference expenses by $0.5 million as the timing of the events were impacted by COVID in the previous year. Interest income Interest income increased by $3.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is due to the timing of the investment and increase in the interest rate in 2022 as compared to 2021. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net decreased by $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to decrease in the fair value of private placement warrant liability in 2022 as compared to 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Aevas capital requirements will depend on many factors, including sales volume, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of December 31, 2022, Aeva had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $323.8 million. Prior to the Business Combination, Aevas principal sources of liquidity have been proceeds received from the issuance of equity. Aeva expects the funds raised in the Business Combination, including the funds from the PIPE financing, to fund its near term cash needs but will be required to raise additional capital unless Aeva is able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of its products to cover operating expense, working capital and capital expenditures. Any additional equity securities issued may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of the Companys common stock. If Aeva raises funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of common stockholders. The terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on Aevas operations. The credit market and financial services industry have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of uncertainty and other risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors that could impact the availability and cost of equity and debt financing. Aeva has incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and losses from operations in the past as reflected in its accumulated deficit of $310.3 million as of December 31, 2022. Aeva expects to continue to incur operating losses due to continued investments that it intends to make in its business, including development of 54 products. Aeva believes that existing cash and cash equivalent and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund operating and capital expenditure requirements through at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these financial statements. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (109,911 ) $ (82,105 ) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 110,890 (388,572 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (369 ) 512,863 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 610 $ 42,186 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, of $109.9 million, was primarily attributable to a net loss of $147.3 million, partially offset by a net change in our net operating assets and liabilities of $5.9 million and by non-cash charges of $31.5 million. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $24.3 million in stock-based compensation, $3.3 million in depreciation and amortization of intangibles, $2.9 million in amortization of right-of-use assets, $1.7 million in impairment of inventory, $0.4 million in accretion of discount on available for sale securities, partially offset by $1.0 million change in the fair value of warrant liabilities. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in inventory, a $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to timing of billing and cash collections, a $5.0 million increase in accrued liability, a $1.3 million increase in accounts payable resulting primarily from expansion in our operating activities and a $2.5 million increase in accrued employee cost, partially offset by a $3.6 million decrease in other current assets, a $2.9 million decrease in lease liability and a $0.5 million decrease in other current liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was attributable to $328.5 million of cash received from the maturity and sale of available-for-sale investments, partially offset by cash used in purchase of investments of $210.1 million and $7.4 million used for purchase property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was attributable to a $0.7 million payment of taxes withheld on net settled vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by $0.4 million of proceeds from stock option exercises. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2022, Aeva has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Aeva prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts Aeva reports as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. Aeva bases its estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Aevas actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 55 Aeva believes that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding its historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Stock-Based Compensation Aeva recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to its employees and directors based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the awards. Cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period, which is generally the vesting period of the award. Aeva elected to recognize the effect of forfeitures in the period they occur. The fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing price of the Companys common stock on the grant date. The fair value of each stock option grant was determined by the Company using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which is impacted by the following assumptions: Expected Term Expected term is the length of time the grant is expected to be outstanding before it is exercised or terminated. This number is calculated as the midpoint between the vesting term and the original contractual term (contractual period to exercise). If the option contains graded vesting, then the vesting term would be based on the vesting pattern. Expected Volatility The volatility is based on a benchmark of comparable companies within the automotive and energy storage industries. Expected Dividend Yield The dividend rate used is zero as Aeva has never paid any cash dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Risk-Free Interest Rate The interest rates used are based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent remaining term equal to the expected life of the award. Revenue The most critical accounting policy estimate and judgments required in applying ASC 606, Revenue Recognition of Contracts from Customers, and our revenue recognition policy relate to the identification of performance obligations and accounting for certain contracts recognized over time. In certain contracts, the determination of our distinct performance obligations requires significant judgment. As our business and offerings to customers change over time, the products and services we determine to be distinct performance obligations may change. Such changes may adversely impact the amount of revenue and gross margin we report in a particular period. Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products. Revenue is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration that Aeva expects to receive in exchange for those products and services. Product sales to certain customers may require customer acceptance, in which case revenue recognition is deferred until acceptance takes place. For service projects, revenue is recognized as services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with the terms of contract at estimated collectible amounts. For certain custom products that require engineering and development based on customer specifications, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-to-cost measure of progress which the Company believes faithfully depicts the transfer of control of the goods or services to the customer. Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included in revenue. Some of the Companys arrangements provide software embedded in hardware, and promises to update the Companys software represent immaterial promises in contracts with customers. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are excluded from revenue. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in