Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to InterPrivate Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to InterPrivate Acquisition Management LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on August 16, 2019 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Units, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from August 16, 2019 (inception) through March 31, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had net income of $1,225,382, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $516,220 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $1,173,651, offset by operating costs of $138,754 and a provision for income taxes of $325,735. Liquidity and Capital Resources On February 6, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 21,000,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $210,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 555,000 Private Units to our Sponsor and EarlyBirdCapital, generating gross proceeds of $5,550,000. On February 10, 2020, in connection with the underwriters exercise of their over-allotment option in full, we consummated the sale of an additional 3,150,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $31,500,000. In addition, we also consummated the sale of an additional 63,000 Private Units at $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $32,130,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Units, a total of $241,500,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $5,310,386 in Initial Public Offering related costs, including $4,830,000 of underwriting fees and $480,386 of other costs. 15 As of March 31, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $243,189,871 (including approximately $1,690,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through March 31, 2020, we have not withdrawn any interest earned on the Trust Account. For the three months March 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $179,553. Net income of $1,225,382 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $516,220, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $1,173,651 and a deferred tax provision of $246,467. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $38,469 of cash for operating activities. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of March 31, 2020, we had cash of $716,123. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into units at a price of $10.00 per unit, at the option of the lender. The units would be identical to the Private Units. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2020. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of one of our executive officers a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. We began incurring these fees on February 3, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. We entered into an agreement whereby, commencing on the February 3, 2020, through the earlier of the Companys consummation of a Business Combination and the liquidation of the Trust Account, we will pay our Vice President a $10,000 per month fee for assisting us in negotiating and consummating an initial Business Combination. Additionally, we have engaged EarlyBirdCapital as an advisor in connection with a Business Combination to assist us in holding meetings with its shareholders to discuss the potential Business Combination and the target business attributes, introduce us to potential investors that are interested in purchasing our securities in connection with a Business Combination, assist us in obtaining shareholder approval for the Business Combination and assist us with its press releases and public filings in connection with the Business Combination. We will pay EarlyBirdCapital a cash fee for such services upon the consummation of a Business Combination in an amount equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering (exclusive of any applicable finders fees which might become payable); provided that up to 33% of the fee may be allocated at our sole discretion to other third parties who are investment banks or financial advisory firms not participating in the Initial Public Offering that assist us in identifying and consummating a Business Combination. 16 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common stock subject to possible redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net loss per common share We apply the two-class method in calculating loss per share. Common stock subject to possible redemption which is not currently redeemable and is not redeemable at fair value, has been excluded from the calculation of basic net income per common share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.