Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, these proceeds will not be released until the earlier of the completion of an initial business combination and our redemption of 100% of the outstanding shares issued in the IPO upon our failure to consummate a business combination within the required time period. The remaining proceeds from our IPO and simultaneous private placement, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other costs and expenses, became available to be used as working capital to provide for business, legal and accounting due diligence on prospective business combinations and continuing general and administrative expenses. For further details regarding our business, see the section titled Information about InterPrivate contained in our definitive proxy statement/prospectus/consent solicitation statement dated February 12, 2021, incorporated by reference herein. Proposed Business Combination The Business Combination Agreement On November 2, 2020, we entered into a Business Combination Agreement (as it may be amended and/or restated from time to time, the Business Combination Agreement) with WLLY Merger Sub Corp., a Delaware corporation and newly formed, wholly-owned direct subsidiary of InterPrivate (Merger Sub), and Aeva, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Aeva), pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into Aeva (the Merger), with Aeva surviving the Merger as a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of InterPrivate (the Proposed Business Combination). The Business Combination Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, closing conditions, termination fee provisions and other terms relating to the Proposed Business Combination and the transactions contemplated thereby. 1 In connection with the closing of the Proposed Business Combination (the Closing), at the effective time of the Merger, by virtue of the Merger, all shares of Aeva common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be canceled and converted into the right to receive shares of our common stock, all outstanding Aeva options will be converted into options to purchase our common stock and all outstanding Aeva restricted stock units will be converted into InterPrivate restricted stock units. The aggregate number of shares of common stock to be issued in the Proposed Business Combination will be equal to $1.7 billion plus the exercise price of all outstanding Aeva options, divided by $10.00. Following the Closing, we will own all the stock of Aeva and the Aeva stockholders as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will hold a majority of our outstanding common stock. The Closing is subject to certain conditions, including but not limited to the approval of our stockholders and Aevas stockholders of the Business Combination Agreement. The Business Combination Agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain circumstances including if the Proposed Business Combination has not occurred by March 31, 2021. Aeva has agreed to customary no shop obligations subject to a customary fiduciary out, and Aeva would be required to pay a termination fee in the amount of $68 million if the Business Combination Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. On March 11, 2021, at a special meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved the Proposed Business Combination and other related proposals. The Closing is expected to occur on March 12, 2021. Stockholder Support Agreement On November 2, 2020, certain stockholders of Aeva holding the votes necessary to approve the Proposed Business Combination entered into a Stockholder Support Agreement (the Stockholder Support Agreement), pursuant to which, among other things, such stockholders have agreed to vote all of their shares of Aeva capital stock in favor of the approval and adoption of the Business Combination Agreement and the Proposed Business Combination. Additionally, such stockholders have agreed not to (a) transfer any of their shares of Aeva capital stock (or enter into any arrangement with respect thereto) or (b) enter into any voting arrangement that is inconsistent with the Stockholder Support Agreement. Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement and as a condition to the Closing, we, the Sponsor and EarlyBirdCapital (the Original Holders) and certain stockholders of Aeva (the New Holders, and collectively with the Original Holders, the Holders) will enter into the Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement at Closing. Pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement, we will be obligated to file a registration statement to register the resale of certain of our securities held by the Holders. In addition, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions, including with regard to the number of demand rights that may be exercised, the Holders may demand at any time or from time to time, to sell all or any portion of their registrable securities in an underwritten offering so long as the total offering price is reasonably expected to exceed $30 million. The Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement will also provide the Holders with piggy-back registration rights, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. Subject to certain exceptions, the Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement further provides for our securities held by the New Holders to be locked-up for a period of one-hundred eighty days following the Closing, while fifty percent of the founder shares held by the Sponsor will be locked-up until the earlier of (i) one year following the Closing or (ii) the date on which the sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $12.50 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-day trading period, and the other fifty percent of the founder shares held by the Sponsor will be locked-up until one year following the Closing. Subscription Agreements On November 2, 2020, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors, pursuant to which the investors have agreed to purchase in the aggregate approximately 12,000,000 shares of common stock in a private placement for $10.00 per share (the November 2020 PIPE) for anticipated gross proceeds of approximately $120,000,000. We agreed to give certain registration rights to the November 2020 PIPE investors pursuant to the subscription agreements. On December 23, 2020, we entered into separate subscription agreements with an institutional accredited investor and its affiliates pursuant to which the investors agreed to purchase an aggregate of approximately 16,168,478 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $200 million, consisting of a $150 million tranche with a purchase price of $11.50 per share and a $50 million tranche with a purchase price of $16.00 per share, in a private placement (collectively, the December 2020 PIPE). The investors who agreed to purchase December 2020 PIPE shares in the $150 million tranche also entered into waiver and lockup agreements with us pursuant to which each agreed (1) to vote all shares of common stock held by such investor on the record date for the special meeting in favor of the proposal to approve the Proposed Business Combination, (2) not to submit any such shares of common stock for conversion in connection with such vote and (3) to a lock-up of such tranche of December 2020 PIPE shares for a period of one year following the Closing. The purpose of the November 2020 PIPE and December 2020 PIPE is to raise additional capital for use in connection with the Proposed Business Combination, to meet the minimum cash requirements of the Company provided in the Business Combination Agreement and for use by the post-combination company following the Closing. The November 2020 PIPE and the December 2020 PIPE are conditioned on, among other customary closing conditions, the closing of the Proposed Business Combination. 2 Stockholders Agreement In connection with the Closing, we, the Sponsor, Canaan, Lux and the Aeva Founders (defined below) will enter into a stockholders agreement (the Stockholders Agreement) to provide for certain governance matters relating to the post-combination company. The Business Combination Agreement and the Stockholders Agreement Term Sheet attached thereto provide for, among other things, the size and composition of the initial board of directors of the post-combination company upon the Closing, which will initially consist of a classified board of seven directors, a majority of which will be independent. Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, we will represent and warrant that the initial post-combination board will be set at a size of seven members but at the time of the Closing will consist of only five directors: Soroush Salehian Dardashti; Mina Rezk (together with Mr. Salehian, the Aeva Founders); one independent director designated by Lux, who will be Shahin Farshchi; one independent director designated by Canaan (who also meets the independence requirements under Rule 10A-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act with respect to service on the audit committee of the board) (an Audit Committee Qualified Director), who will be Hrach Simonian; and one Audit Committee Qualified Director designated by the Sponsor, who will be Ahmed M. Fattouh. After Closing, there will be two vacancies on the post-combination board and the Aeva Founders will have the right to nominate both, one of whom shall include an Audit Committee Qualified Director and both of whom shall be subject to the approval of a majority of the post-combination board. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, from and after the Closing, the Stockholders Agreement provides that each Aeva Founder will be entitled to nominate himself to continue to serve on the board until such time as he holds less than 5% of the outstanding common stock of the post-combination company (or his earlier death or Incapacity (as defined in the Stockholders Agreement)), and the post-combination company will include such nominees in its proxy materials for each applicable meeting of stockholders and, subject to applicable law and the exercise of fiduciary duties, recommend to the post-combination company stockholders that each such nominee be elected at such meeting. The amended and restated bylaws of the post-combination company, by reference to the Stockholders Agreement, will provide that (i) Mr. Rezk shall serve as Chairman of the board for so long as he is a director and (ii) in the event Mr. Rezk is no longer a director, then Mr. Salehian shall serve as the Chairman so long as he is a director. The Aeva Founders rights under the Stockholders Agreement will not be transferable. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS For the risks relating to our operations, see the section titled Risk Factors contained in our definitive proxy statement/prospectus/consent solicitation statement dated February 12, 2021, incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTY We currently maintain our principal executive offices at 1350 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10019. The cost for this space is included in the $10,000 per-month fee InterPrivate LLC, an affiliate of our Sponsor, charges us for general and administrative services. We consider our current office space, combined with the other office space otherwise available to our executive officers, adequate for our current operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a discussion of our legal proceedings, see the section titled Information About InterPrivateLegal Proceedings contained in our definitive proxy statement/prospectus/consent solicitation statement dated February 12, 2021, incorporated by reference herein . ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 3 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our units, common stock and warrants are listed on NYSE under the symbols IPV.U, IPV and IPV WS, respectively. Holders As of March 10, 2021, there were 3 holders of record of our units, 20 holders of record of our common stock and 1 holder of record of our warrants. The number of holders of record does not include a substantially greater number of street name holders or beneficial holders whose units, common stock and warrants are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and we do not intend to pay cash dividends prior to the completion of the Proposed Business Combination. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon the post-combination companys revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition subsequent to completion of the Proposed Business Combination. The payment of any cash dividends subsequent to the Proposed Business Combination will be within the discretion of the post-combination board at such time. The post-combination companys ability to declare dividends may also be limited by restrictive covenants pursuant to any debt financing agreements. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the notes related thereto which are included in