Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those described in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed below and those set forth under Risk Factors herein and other filings we make with the SEC from time to time. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, us, and AEye refer to the business and operations of AEye, Inc. Overview We are a provider of high-performance, active lidar systems technology for vehicle autonomy, advanced driver-assistance systems, or ADAS, and robotic vision applications. With a sophisticated workforce of leaders and researchers, we have developed an artificial intelligence technology that enables adaptive intelligent sensing, differentiating us in the marketplace from our competition. Our proprietary software-definable 4Sight TM Intelligent Sensing Platform combines solid-state active lidar, an optionally fused low-light HD camera, and integrated deterministic artificial intelligence to capture more intelligent information with less data, enabling faster, more accurate, and more reliable perception of the surroundings. We were founded in 2013 by Luis Dussan, our Chief Technology Officer, to create a deterministic AI-driven sensing system that performs better than the human eye and visual cortex. Mr. Dussans experience developing mission-critical targeting systems for fighter jets and ground troops on behalf of the U.S. military provided him with the background to develop a differentiated approach to visual sensing. While traditional sensing systems passively collect data, our active 4Sight TM Intelligent Sensing Platform leverages principles from automated targeting systems and biomimicry to scan the environment, while intelligently focusing on what matters in order to enable safer, smarter, and faster decisions in complex scenarios. From our inception, our culture has drawn from esteemed scientists and electro-optics engineers from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or NASA, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the U.S. Air Force, and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, to create the highest performing sensing and perception system for the most challenging situations, ensuring the highest levels of safety for autonomous driving. As a result, our adaptive lidar is designed to enable higher levels of autonomy and functionality SAE Levels 2 through 5 with the goal of optimizing performance, power, and reducing cost. Our 4Sight Intelligent Sensing Platform is software-definable and network-optimized, and leverages deterministic artificial intelligence at the edge. We have made substantial investments in our R&D processes and deliver value to our customers through a combination of sales and direct channels. We perform the majority of our R&D activities in our 56,549 square foot corporate headquarters in Dublin, California. Our modular design facilitates product hardware updates as technologies evolve, and its small size and modest heat dissipation enable very flexible placement options on the interior or exterior of a vehicle. 4Sight also leverages a common architecture to create application-specific products across the Automotive, Mobility and Industrial markets. Our systems-based approach encourages partnership from the well-established automotive supply chain, including original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, as well as Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers. There is strong alignment between us and our partners given what is required to produce a high-performance automotive grade products at scale, including quality, reliability, and affordability. Our Tier 1 partners will add value with OEM customers through industrialization, manufacturing, integration, sales, marketing, product liability, and warranty. Our Tier 2 partners will provide automotive-grade sub-components, which are used not only in automotive lidar for ADAS use cases, but also for our products to be sold in the Industrial and Mobility markets. We expect the result will be a high-quality, high-performance product at a low cost, which we believe to be a key enabler in accelerating adoption of lidar across various markets in Automotive and beyond. In pursuing this strategy, we have partnered with leading Tier 1 automotive suppliers including Continental AG, HELLA GmbH & Co. KG aA, Aisin Corporation, and ZKW Group GmbH (an affiliate of LG Electronics Inc.). One of our Tier 1 partners is currently in the process of bidding for long range lidar series production awards with OEMs that are expected to represent a substantial portion of our 2026 forecasted revenues. The main markets for lidar, including Automotive, Industrial, and Mobility, are projected to see significant growth in both the near and long term. We believe this expected growth will allow us to achieve greater market share as well as pursue specialization opportunities like highway autonomous driving applications that benefit from our products. We expect that lidar will be a required sensing solution across many end markets, and we intend to be the leading solutions 27 provider in these spaces. All dollar amounts expressed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are in thousands of dollars, except for per share amounts and unless otherwise specified. Business Combination and Public Company Costs As a result of the Business Combination, which was closed on August 16, 2021, a subsidiary of CF Finance Acquisition Corp III, or CF III, Meliora Merger Sub, Inc., merged with and into AEye, Inc., then known as AEye Technologies, Inc., or AEye Technologies, with AEye Technologies continuing as the surviving entity as a wholly owned subsidiary of CF III, and CF III thereafter operating under the new name AEye, Inc., or AEye, or the combined entity. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization, in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Under this method of accounting, AEye Technologies was treated as the accounting acquirer, meaning CF III was treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. This determination is primarily based on AEye Technologies stockholders comprising a relative majority of the voting power of the combined entity and having the ability to nominate the majority of the governing body of the combined entity. Additionally, AEye Technologies senior management comprise the senior management of the combined entity and AEye Technologies operations comprise the ongoing operations of the combined entity. Accordingly, for accounting purposes, the financial statements of the combined entity will represent a continuation of the financial statements of AEye Technologies, and the Business Combination will be treated as the equivalent of AEye Technologies issuing stock for the net assets of CF III, accompanied by a recapitalization. The most significant change in AEye Technologies financial position and results of the business combination was an increase in cash of $256,811, before transaction costs. Total non-recurring transaction costs incurred for this transaction were $52,661. Upon the closing of the Business Combination, we began trading under the symbols LIDR and LIDRW on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq. We anticipate that we will continue to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. We have incurred and expect to incur additional annual expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, and additional internal and external accounting and legal and administrative resources, including increased audit and legal fees. COVID-19 Impact The extensive impact of the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted and will likely continue to result in significant disruptions to the global economy, as well as businesses and capital markets around the world, despite the reports of declines in severity. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and affected our business operations, which has led to business and supply chain disruptions, as well as broad changes in its supply and demand. For example, our offices and R&D and manufacturing have been, and from time-to-time may continue to be, impacted due to national and regional government declarations requiring closures, quarantines and travel restrictions. The continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on various future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and impact on our customers, suppliers, and employees, all of which is uncertain at this time. We expect the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact our future revenue and results of operations but we are unable to predict at this time the size and duration of this adverse impact. At the same time, we have seen some signs of positive effects for our long-term business prospects and partnerships during the pandemic. We believe automakers perceive the incorporation of lidar solutions in new models as a long-term strategic initiative that will be necessary for future growth and are therefore beyond the direct impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, although the timing of the incorporation will likely be impacted by the pandemic. For more information on our operations and risks related to epidemics, including COVID-19, please see the section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled Risk Factors. Key Factors Affecting Our Operating Results We believe that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on its ability to capitalize on the following opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below and the risk factors described in the section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled Risk Factors. 28 We are subject to those risks common in the technology industry and also those risks common to early stage companies including, but not limited to, the possibility of not being able to successfully develop or commercialize its products; attract new customers and retain existing customers; develop and protect intellectual property; comply with existing and new or modified laws and regulations applicable to its business; maintain and enhance the value of its reputation and brand; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of its organization and successfully develop new solutions to enhance the experience of customers. Market Trends and Uncertainties We anticipate growing demand for its 4Sight TM Intelligent Sensing Platform across three major markets - Automotive, Industrial, and Mobility. We also anticipate that the total addressable market for lidar-based perception technology to grow to $42 billion by 2030. Within those markets, we are targeting attractive segments, including advanced driver-assistance systems, or ADAS, autonomous driving, commercial trucking, robo-taxis, and various Industrial and Mobility market segments such as mining, aviation, shuttles, railway, and intelligent transportation systems, or ITS. This provides us with multiple opportunities for sustained growth by enabling new applications and product features across these market segments. However, as our customers continue R&D projects to commercialize solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. In the Automotive market for example, which accounted for 58% and 35% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, our growth and financial performance will be heavily influenced by our ability to successfully integrate into OEM programs that require years of development, testing, and validation. Because of the size and complexity of these OEM programs, we see our existing Tier 1 partnerships as a substantial competitive advantage given their large scale, mass-production capabilities, and existing OEM customer relationships. Our primary focus in Automotive is on ADAS for passenger and commercial vehicle autonomy, particularly highway autonomy applications. We believe that growth in that market is driven by both more stringent safety regulations and consumer demand for vehicles offering increased safety. We will need to anticipate and adapt to any changes in the regulatory environment, as well as changes in consumer demand in order to take advantage of this opportunity. Additionally, we are increasing our investments in international operations and partnerships that will position us to expand our business globally and meet growing demand in the international markets. This is an important part of our core strategy and may expose us to additional factors such as foreign currency risk, additional operating costs, and other risks and challenges that may impact the ability to meet projected sales and margin targets. Partnerships and Commercialization Our technology is designed to be a key enabler of autonomous solutions for Automotive, Industrial, and Mobility market applications. Because our technology must be integrated into a broader solution by our customers, it is critical that we achieve design wins with these customers. The timing of these design wins varies based on the market and application. Achieving a design win with an OEM within the Automotive market may take considerably longer than a design win with customers in the Industrial or Mobility markets. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although the revenue generated by each design win and the time necessary to achieve such a win can vary significantly, making it difficult to predict our financial performance. Our revenue and profitability will be dependent upon our success in licensing our technology to Tier 1 automotive suppliers, such as Continental, which represented 58% and 6% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, t hat intend to use our technology in volume production of lidar sensors for OEMs. Delays of autonomy programs from OEMs that we are currently or will be working with through our Tier 1 partners could result in us being unable to achieve our revenue targets and profitability in the timeframe we anticipate. Our revenue and profitability will be further dependent upon both our success in selling our lidar solutions to customers in the Industrial and Mobility markets. Gross Margin Improvement Our gross margins will depend on numerous factors, including, among others, the selling price of our products, pricing of our development contracts with customers, royalty rates on licenses we grant to our customers, unit volumes, product mix, component costs, personnel costs, contract manufacturing costs, overhead costs, and product features. In the future, we expect to generate attractive gross margins from licensing our lidar technology and software to our Tier 1 partners in Automotive, and we expect those licenses will begin generating revenue for us in 2024. We also sell our own lidar solutions to customers in the Industrial and Mobility markets utilizing low-cost components that are sourced from the Tier 2 automotive supply chain and assembled by our contract manufacturing 29 partners. If our Tier 1 partners in Automotive do not achieve the volumes that we expect, then the cost of the components we use to address the Industrial and Mobility markets may be higher than we currently anticipate and may impact our gross margins and our ability to achieve profitability. To date, our revenue has been generated through development contracts with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers to the OEMs, as well as unit sales of our products. The development contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4Sight capabilities to the customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of particular perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. In general, development contracts that require more complex configurations have higher prices. We expect development contracts to represent a smaller share of our total revenue over time, as we increase our focus on technology licensing and product sales. We expect our gross margins from the sale of products to improve over time as we outsource volume production of our lidar sensors to contract manufacturers, which will both increase unit volumes and reduce the cost per unit. In September 2021, we commenced our transition process to contract manufacturers which we expect to be complete in mid- to late 2022. Investment and Innovation Our proprietary adaptive, intelligent lidar technology delivers industry-leading performance that helps to solve the most difficult challenges in delivering partial or full autonomy. While traditional sensing systems passively collect data, our active 4Sight Intelligent Sensing Platform leverages principles from automated targeting systems and biomimicry to scan its environment, while intelligently focusing on what matters in order to enable safer, smarter, and faster decisions in complex scenarios. We believe our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain a technology leadership position. This is further dependent on the investments we make in R&D. It is essential that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, develop and introduce innovative new products, enhance and service existing products, and generate strong market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our leading market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Basis of Presentation We currently conduct our business through one operating segment. Components of Results of Operations Total Revenues We categorize our revenue as (1) prototype sales and (2) development contracts. In 2022 and 2021, our prototype revenue primarily related to unit sales of the companys 4Sight M product. Revenue from prototype sales is typically recognized at a point in time when the control of goods is transferred to the customer, generally upon delivery or shipment to the customer. Development contracts represented the majority of our total revenues in 2022 and 2021. Revenue from development contracts are earned from R&D activities and collaboration with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers to the OEMs. These contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4Sight capabilities to the customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. Revenue from development contracts is recognized when we satisfy performance obligations in the contract, which can result in recognition at either a point in time or over time. This assessment is made at the outset of the arrangement for each performance obligation. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes the costs directly associated with the production of prototypes and certain costs associated with development contracts. Such costs for prototypes are direct materials, direct labor, indirect labor, warranty expense, and allocation of overhead. Costs associated with development contracts include the direct costs and allocation of overhead costs involved in the execution of the contracts. 30 Operating Expenses Research and Development Our research and development, or R&D, efforts are focused primarily on hardware, software, and system engineering related to the design and development of our advanced lidar solutions. R&D expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense; third-party engineering and contractor costs; lab equipment; new hardware and software expenses; and allocated overhead expenses. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow because we believe that investment is essential to maintain our position as a provider of one of the most advanced lidar solutions available. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing, or S&M, efforts are focused primarily on sales, business development, and marketing programs in pursuit of revenue contracts from potential and existing customers. S&M expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense; demonstration equipment; trade shows expenses, advertising, and promotions expenses for press releases and other public relations services; and allocated overhead expenses. We expect our S&M expenses to grow over time as we continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts to support the anticipated growth of our business. General and Administrative Our general and administrative, or G&A, spending supports all business functions. G&A expenses include: personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for executive, finance, legal, human resources, technical support, and other administrative personnel; consulting, accounting, legal and professional fees; insurance premiums, software and computer equipment costs, general office expenses; and allocated overhead expenses. We expect our G&A expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we increase our headcount to support the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including additional costs and expenses associated with compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, legal, audit, insurance, investor relations, and other administrative and professional services. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities Change in fair value of warrants are non-cash changes and primarily consists of changes in fair value related to the warrant liabilities. The warrant liabilities are classified as marked-to-market liabilities pursuant to ASC 480 and the corresponding increase or decrease in value impacts our net loss. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest expense consisted primarily of interest on our borrowings and convertible notes and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount. 31 Upon the closing of the Business Combination, the borrowings were repaid with any remaining debt issuance costs and discounts expensed. The pre-combination convertible notes and accrued interest were settled and converted to Class A common stock. See additional discussion in Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this report. The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % Prototype sales $ 335 $ 233 $ 102 44 % Development contracts 747 96 651 678 % Total revenues 1,082 329 753 229 % Cost of revenue 1,482 617 865 140 % Gross (loss) profit (400) (288) (112) 39 % Research and development 8,576 5,836 2,740 47 % Sales and marketing 4,616 1,587 3,029 191 % General and administrative 11,330 3,010 8,320 276 % Total operating expenses 24,522 10,433 14,089 135 % Loss from operations (24,922) (10,721) (14,201) 132 % Change in fair value of embedded derivative and warrant liabilities (32) (103) 71 (69) % Interest income and other 424 3 421 14,033 % Interest expense and other (343) (688) 345 (50) % Total other income (expense), net 49 (788) 837 (106) % Provision for income tax expense 8 $ $ 8 100 % Net loss $ (24,881) $ (11,509) $ (13,372) 116 % Revenue Prototype Sales Prototype sales increased by $102, or 44%, to $335 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $233 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase in 4Sight M unit sales. Development Contracts Development contracts increased by $651, or 678%, to $747 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $96 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to revenue recognized in the current year from a large Tier 1 automotive supplier contract. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $865, or 140%, to $1,482 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $617 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to the increase in prototype sales and the cost of revenue associated with the Tier 1 automotive supplier contract. 32 Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $2,740, or 47%, to $8,576 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $5,836 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily driven by increases in consumption of parts from inventory of $1,142, stock-based compensation expense of $573, personnel costs of $2,323, and information technology expense of $266, partially offset by a decrease in outsourced research and development work of $898. Sales and Marketing Total sales and marketing expenses increased by $3,029, or 191%, to $4,616 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $1,587 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to increases in marketing program spend of $443, stock-based compensation expense of $527, and personnel costs of $1,441. General and Administrative Total general and administrative expenses increased by $8,320, or 276%, to $11,330 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $3,010 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase in administrative expense, including professional accounting and legal fees of $2,372, directors' and officers' insurance of $1,259, stock-based compensation expense of $2,471, and personnel costs of $1,988. Change in Fair Value of Embedded Derivative and Warrant Liabilities Change in fair value of embedded derivative and warrant liabilities decreased by $71, or 69%, to $32 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $103 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to a smaller change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities in the current period compared to prior period. Interest Income and Other Interest income and other increased by $421 to $424 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $3 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to the interest earned on our marketable securities of $421. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other decreased by $345, or 50%, to $343 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $688 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to the $688 of prior period interest expense not recurring in the current year given the Company no longer has outstanding debt. This is offset by $336 of amortization of premiums on marketable securities, net of accretion of discounts, in the current period. Provision for Income Tax Expense Provision for income tax expenses increased to $8 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase is primarily due to changes in pretax income (loss) in the United States and certain foreign entities and changes in tax rates. Net Loss Net loss increased by $13,372, or 116%, to $24,881 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $11,509 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses. 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including sales volume, the timing and extent of spending to support R&D efforts, investments in information technology systems, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, increased costs as we continue to hire additional personnel, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of March 31, 2022, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $143.9 million. To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been proceeds received from the issuance of equity. In December 2021 the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement, or CSPA, with Tumim Stone Capital LLC, whereby we will have the right, but not the obligation, to issue and sell to Tumim Stone, over a 36-month period, up to $125,000,000 of the Companys common stock once we file the registration statement covering the resale of registrable securities under the CSPA and such registration statement is deemed effective by the SEC. As of March 31, 2022, no shares were issued under this CSPA. On May 6, 2022, the Company filed a Form S-1 registration statement, which relates to the offer and resale of up to 30,865,419 shares of our common stock by Tumim Stone, the selling stockholder. Until we can generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products to cover operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised in the Business Combination, PIPE financing, as well as any future funds from the CSPA, to fund our near term cash needs. If we are required to raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution of stockholders will likely result. Any debt securities issued may also have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The credit market and financial services industry have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of uncertainty that could impact the availability and cost of equity and debt financing. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we had a net loss of $24,881 and $11,509, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for at least the next several years. We expect that our research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses will continue to be significant and, as a result, we may need additional capital resources to fund our operations. We believe that the net proceeds from the Business Combination and CSPA with Tumim Stone, together with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, will enable us to fund our operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from March 31, 2022. Our plans for the use of cash in the long-term (beyond the twelve months indicated above) are similarly related to funding operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditure requirements as we continue to scale the business. For additional information regarding our cash requirements from lease obligations and contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 19 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cash Flow Summary Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (16,023) $ (8,814) Investing activities $ 14,726 $ (121) Financing activities $ (1,709) $ 7,797 Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $16,023. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were net loss of $24,881, offset by stock-based compensation of $5,340, depreciation and amortization of $208, inventory write-downs of $267, and amortization of premiums on marketable securities, net of changes in accrued interest of $594. Within operating activities, the net changes in operating assets and liabilities were cash used of $2,100, primarily driven by an increase in inventories of $436 and decreases in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $645, accounts payable of $567, and contract liabilities of $767, offset by decreases in prepaids and other current assets of $510 and accounts receivable of $3,930. 34 For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $8,814. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were net loss of $11,509, offset by stock-based compensation of $1,610, depreciation and amortization of $245, and amortization of debt issuance costs of $283. Within operating activities net changes in operating assets and liabilities was cash provided of $460, primarily driven by an increase in accounts payable of $2,494 and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $873, offset by an increase in other noncurrent assets of $2,785. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by investing activities was $14,726. The primary factor affecting net cash provided by investing activities during this period were the proceeds from redemption of marketable securities of $15,500. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities was $121, due to the purchase of lab and testing equipment, test vehicles, and computer equipment of $121 associated with growth of our employee base. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $1,709. The primary factors affecting our financing cash flows during this period were payments for taxes related to net settlement of equity awards of $1,931, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $222. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $7,797. The primary factor affecting our financing cash flows during this period were the proceeds from the issuance of convertible notes of $8,045, partially offset by principal payments of bank loans of $333. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods, fair value measures, and the related disclosures in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions, and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe our critical accounting policies involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those previously disclosed in "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and we have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. Following the closing of the Business Combination, our Post-Combination Company will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which the Company has total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which the Company has issued more than $1.0 35 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period, or (iv) December 31, 2025. We expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to adopt such new or revised accounting standards early to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our f inancial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.