Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks, or others specified below, could materially and adversely affect our business, strategies, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors As noted above, our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in this Risk Factors section that represent challenges that we face in connection with the successful implementation of our strategy and growth of our business. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in the section titled Risk Factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Such risks include, but are not limited to: We are an early stage company with a history of losses and we expect to incur significant expenses and continuing losses for at least the next several years. We substantially rely on relationships with Tier 1 automotive suppliers and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot establish or maintain relationships with one or more Tier 1 partners, or if we, through our relationship with various Tier 1 partners, are unable to obtain a sufficient number of design wins and successfully enter into definitive agreements or other commercial arrangements with automotive OEMs with respect to such design wins. We intend to raise additional capital in order to execute our business plan and to respond to changing market conditions, which additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict, particularly in light of the current economic environment, which in turn could cause volatility in our stock price. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We continue to implement strategic initiatives designed to grow our business. These initiatives may prove more costly than we currently anticipate and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue in an amount sufficient to offset the costs of these initiatives and to achieve and maintain profitability. If our deterministic artificial intelligence-driven sensing system is not selected for inclusion in advanced driver-assistance systems, or ADAS, by any automotive OEMs or their suppliers, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the lingering and continuing impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic, other epidemics or outbreaks, as well as other global events and macroeconomic factors, such as the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East. We heavily rely on third-party suppliers and because some of the raw materials and key components in our products come from limited or single source suppliers, our ability to control the costs of such components and raw materials is uncertain; moreover, regardless of cost, we are susceptible to supply shortages, longer than anticipated lead times for components, and supply changes, any of which could disrupt our supply chain, could delay deliveries of our products to customers, and could negatively impact the adoption of our products and accordingly, our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue investing in R&D, albeit at a reduced amount compared to prior years and commercializing new products, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us. 11 Although we believe that lidar is an essential technology for autonomous vehicles and other emerging applications, market adoption of lidar is uncertain. If market adoption of lidar does not continue to develop, or adoption is deferred, or otherwise develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be adversely affected. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects, errors, or reliability issues in our hardware or software which could reduce the market adoption of our products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, and expose us to product liability and other claims, thereby adversely affecting our operating costs. The average selling prices of our products or our fees or royalties from technology licenses could decrease rapidly over the life of the product or license term, which may negatively affect our revenue and gross margin. Shareholder activism could cause us to incur significant expense, disrupt our business, result in a proxy contest or litigation, and impact our stock price. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Industry We are an early stage company with a history of losses and we expect to incur significant expenses and continuing losses for at least the next few years. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred net losses of approximately $87.1 million and $98.7 million, respectively. We expect that we will continue to incur significant losses through at least the next few years as we: continue to utilize our third-party partners for design, testing and commercialization; expand our operations and supply chain capabilities to produce our lidar components and systems, including costs associated with outsourcing the production which, in some instances, requires significant upfront payments by us; expand our design, development and commercialization; build up inventories of parts and components for our lidar solutions; and maintain a level of general and administrative spending to meet the requirements of operating as a public company. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $337.6 million. Even if we are able to increase sales or licensing of our products, there can be no assurance that we will be commercially successful. Since we will incur the costs and expenses from these efforts prior to receiving incremental revenues with respect thereto, our losses in future periods will be significant. In the past, design wins, the first step towards commercialization with a particular OEM, have taken longer than originally expected. Such delays, including delays that may occur in the future, will impact the timing of our revenue. If our products do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, we will not become profitable. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, we may be unable to continue our business operations. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. Our business model for the Automotive market substantially relies on us maintaining a relationship with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers; our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to establish or maintain a relationship with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers, or even if we establish and maintain a relationship with one or more Tier 1 automotive supplies, if such Tier 1 automotive suppliers are unable to obtain a sufficient number of design wins and enter into definitive agreements or other commercial arrangements with automotive OEMs with respect to such design wins. Our business prospects in the Automotive market are substantially based on us establishing and maintaining a relationship with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers. In 2021, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Continental AG, a well-established Tier 1 automotive supplier, pursuant to which Continental licensed from us the rights to manufacture and integrate our lidar solution into automotive OEM model lines through long-term series production contracts with automotive OEMs. In late 2023, Continental informed us that they intended to discontinue our joint lidar development program due to internal restructuring of their business model. In response to 12 this, we are seeking out new relationships with one or more new Tier 1 automotive suppliers. If we fail to establish a relationship with a Tier 1 automotive supplier, it will have a material and adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain a relationship with any Tier 1 automotive supplier, or, even if we are successful in doing so, that the Tier 1 automotive suppliers will be in a position to secure orders for our product designs and software. If we are unable to maintain or progress our relationship with a Tier 1 automotive supplier, or if any Tier 1 automotive supplier is unable to secure a sufficient number of design wins and enter into definitive agreements or other commercial arrangements with automotive OEMs, then our business could be materially and adversely affected. We intend to raise additional capital in order to execute our business plan and to respond to changing market conditions, which additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We intend to raise additional capital either by issuing equity, debt, or a combination of the two, in order to respond to market timing delays, technological advancements, competition, competitive technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, other challenges, potential acquisitions, unforeseen circumstances, or other reasons. In order to further business relationships with current or potential customers or partners, we may issue equity or equity-linked securities to such customers or partners. Despite the need for additional capital, we may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, especially given current market conditions where raising additional capital has proven particularly challenging. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt or other equity-linked securities or if we issue equity or equity-linked securities to current or potential customers to further our business relationships, our existing stockholders would likely experience dilution, which may be significant. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital or to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Additionally, under current SEC regulations, if at the time we file this Annual Report on Form 10-K our public float is less than $75 million, and for so long as our public float remains less than $75 million, the amount we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using shelf registration statements is limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float, which is referred to as the baby shelf rules. We expect our public float to be below $75 million at the time we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K. As such, we will be limited by the baby shelf rules until such time as our public float exceeds $75 million, which means we only have the capacity to sell shares up to one-third of our public float under shelf registration statements in any twelve-month period. If our public float decreases, the amount of securities we may sell under our Form S-3 shelf registration statement will also decrease. We will remain constrained by the baby shelf rules under our Form S-3 shelf registration statement until such time as our public float exceeds $75 million, at which time, the number of securities we may sell under a Form S-3 registration statement will no longer be limited by the baby shelf rules. Any restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives that we undertook, or may undertake in the future, may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. In 2023, we have implemented multiple restructuring actions aimed at focusing the organization on the commercialization of our automotive products, while reducing fixed operating costs, including the elimination of our internal sales and marketing teams. Our capital light business model requires us to leverage one or more Tier 1 partners and their manufacturing capabilities, supply chains, OEM relationships, and sales teams to bring our products to market. With the loss of the Continental relationship in late 2023, we no longer have a Tier 1 partner. Moreover, our recent restructurings could result in disruptions to our operations and adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain another Tier 1 partner. For example, we are actively working with potential new Tier 1 partners to pursue multiple RFQ opportunities and if our restructuring actions impede our ability to win these awards, this could materially impact our business. In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction initiatives will be successful in reducing our overall expenses to the extent anticipated, or that unexpected costs will not offset any such reductions or related initiatives. If our operating costs are higher than we expect, or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict, particularly in light of the current economic environment, which in turn could cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future. As such, historical comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. In particular, because our sales to date have primarily been to customers making purchases for their own R&D, sales in any given quarter can fluctuate 13 based on the timing and success of our customers development projects. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. This was particularly true for 2023, as we implemented significant cost-reduction measures making it more difficult for us to further reduce our operating expenses without a material adverse impact on our prospects in future periods. We have and may continue to incur significant or unanticipated expenses related to long-lived asset impairments, inventory write-downs, and one-time termination benefits to restructure our business. For example, in 2023, we impaired $9.9 million of long-lived assets, wrote down $8.6 million of inventory and other current assets, and incurred $3.3 million of one-time termination benefit costs, primarily relating to our decision to wind down our existing Industrial product line and reduce support for this end market until we have sufficient scale in the Automotive market, which is our largest and highest priority market. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. These fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to meet our expectations or those of securities analysts, ratings agencies, or investors. If we do not meet these expectations for any period, the value of our business and our securities, could decline significantly. Factors that may cause these quarterly fluctuations include, without limitation, those listed below: the timing and magnitude of orders and shipments of our products in any quarter; decreases in pricing we may adopt to drive market adoption or in response to competitive pressure; our ability to retain our existing customers and strategic partners and attract new customers and strategic partners; our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship, in a timely manner, products that meet customer requirements; disruptions in our sales channels or termination of our relationships with important channel partners; delays in customers purchasing cycles or deferments of customers purchases in anticipation of new products or updates from us or our competitors; the timing of charges related to impairments of long-lived assets; non-routine write-downs of inventory; one time termination benefits and other restructuring costs; fluctuations in demand for our products; the mix of products sold or licensed by us in any given quarter; the duration of the lingering effects of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the time it takes for economic recovery; the duration or worsening of the military conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, and the time it will take for the economic recovery for such impact to occur; the timing and rate of broader market adoption of ADAS or autonomous systems utilizing our solutions across the automotive and other market sectors; the timing and scale of the market acceptance of lidar generally; further technological advancements by our competitors and other market participants; the ability of our customers and strategic partners to commercialize systems that incorporate our products; any change in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including consolidation of competitors, regulatory developments, and new market entrants; our ability to effectively manage or outsource management of our inventory; 14 changes in the source, cost, availability of, and regulations pertaining to components and materials we use in our products; impact of foreign currency fluctuations; adverse litigation, judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs, or claims that may give rise to such costs; and general economic, industry, and market conditions, including trade disputes. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We have been focused on developing our deterministic artificial intelligence-driven sensing system for vehicle autonomy, ADAS, and industrial applications since 2013. This relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter, which include our ability to: develop and commercialize our products; produce and deliver lidar and software products meeting acceptable performance metrics; forecast our revenue and budget for and manage our expenses; attract new customers and retain existing customers; develop, obtain, or progress strategic partnerships; comply with existing and new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business; plan for and manage capital expenditures for our current and future products, and manage our supply chain and supplier relationships related to our current and future products; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes as well as changes in the markets in which we operate; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; effectively manage our growth and business operations, including the lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business as well as other macroeconomic factors, such as the wars in Ukraine and in the Middle East; develop and protect our intellectual property; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; and successfully develop new solutions to enhance the experience of customers. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, because we have limited historical financial data and operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as those predictions would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will continue to encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 15 We continue to implement strategic initiatives designed to grow our business. These initiatives may prove more costly than we currently anticipate and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue in an amount sufficient to offset the costs of these initiatives or to achieve and maintain profitability. We continue to make investments and implement initiatives designed to grow our business, including: investing in R&D and commercialization; further enhancing our manufacturing processes and partnerships; protecting our intellectual property; and investing in legal, accounting, and other administrative functions necessary to support our operations as a public company. These initiatives may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue, if at all, in an amount sufficient to offset these higher expenses or to achieve and maintain profitability. The market opportunities we are pursuing are at an early stage of development, and it may be many years before the end markets we expect to serve generate demand for our products at scale, if at all. Our revenue may be adversely affected for a number of reasons, including the development and/or market acceptance of new technology that competes with our products, if automotive original equipment manufacturers, or automotive OEMs, Tier 1 automotive suppliers, or other market participants change their view towards autonomous vehicles or ADAS technologies or strategies (as Continental did at the end of 2023), the failure of our customers to commercialize autonomous systems that include our solutions, our inability to effectively manage or outsource the management of our inventory, manufacturing, or contract manufacturing of products at scale, our inability to enter new markets or to help our customers adapt our products for new applications, or our failure to attract new customers or secure production orders from existing customers currently analyzing our solutions, or increasing competition. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our target markets, customer demand for our products, commercialization timelines, developments in autonomous sensing, developments in ADAS and related technologies, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products and services. For these reasons, we do not expect to achieve profitability over the near term. If our revenue does not grow over the long term, our ability to achieve and maintain profitability may be adversely affected, and the value of our business may significantly decrease. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and could decline significantly. The stock markets, including Nasdaq on which we list our shares of common stock, have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Even if an active, liquid, and orderly trading market develops and is sustained for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and could decline significantly. Since December 6, 2022, our stock had closed below $1.00 per share. As previously disclosed, on January 20, 2023, we received notice from Nasdaq that we were no longer in compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on Nasdaq. Although the notification did not have an immediate impact on our Nasdaq listing, we were given a period of 180 calendar days, or until July 19, 2023, to regain compliance with the requirement. At our request, on July 20, 2023, Nasdaq granted to us a second and final 180 calendar day period to regain compliance, or until January 16, 2024. To ensure compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by January 16, 2024, we held a special meeting of stockholders on December 12, 2023, to consider and authorize our Board of Directors to effect a reverse stock split. At the special meeting, the Companys stockholders authorized the Board to effect a reverse stock split, in the Board's discretion, within one year from the date of the special meeting, at one of ten ratios in multiples of five between and including one-for-five to one-for-fifty. Thereafter, the Board resolved to effect a reverse stock split of our issued common stock at a ratio of one-for-thirty (the "Reverse Stock Split"), and pursuant to that resolution, on December 26, 2023, we caused a Certificate of Amendment to our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Reverse Stock Split became effective upon the filing of the Certificate and our common stock began trading on a split-adjusted basis on The Nasdaq Capital Market at the opening of trading on December 27, 2023. Companies that implement a reverse stock split often see a materially negative impact on their stock price. In addition, since the Reverse Stock Split, and the resulting lower number of shares in our float, we have generally seen lower trading volumes in our stock. The trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly for this or other reasons, which can have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at an attractive price, or at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate widely or decline significantly in the future. 16 Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the lingering impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics and outbreaks. The COVID-19 pandemic had disrupted and affected our business operations, which has led to business and supply chain disruptions. The lingering effects of the pandemic are likely to continue to disrupt our business and supply chain in the future. Given the unpredictable nature of COVID-19 and its variants, it is difficult, if not impossible, to predict, whether any government-imposed restrictions will be reimposed at previous levels or enhanced in one or more ways impacting our business operations or those of third parties upon which we rely. The lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including associated business interruptions and recovery, as well as other possible epidemics or outbreaks of other contagions could result in a material adverse impact on our or our business operations, or the business operations of our current or anticipated customers and suppliers, including the potential reduction or suspension of operations in the U.S. or other parts of the world. Our design and engineering operations, among others, cannot all be conducted remotely and often require on-site access to materials and equipment. We have customers, suppliers, and partners with international operations, and our customers, suppliers, and partners also depend on suppliers and manufacturers worldwide, which means that our business and prospects could be affected by the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic anywhere in the world. Depending upon the duration of the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated business interruptions, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, and partners may suspend or delay their engagements with us. We and our customers and suppliers response to the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may prove to be inadequate and they may be unable to continue their respective operations in the manner they had prior to the outbreak or the worsening of the outbreak, and we may consequently endure interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, and shipments, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you as to the timing of the economic recovery given the lingering effects of the pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on our target markets and our business. If our deterministic artificial intelligence-driven sensing system is not selected for inclusion in ADAS technology by automotive OEMs or their suppliers, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Automotive OEMs and their suppliers design and develop ADAS technology over several years. These automotive OEMs and suppliers undertake extensive testing or qualification processes prior to placing orders for large quantities of products, such as our lidar products, because such products will function as part of a larger system or platform and must meet specifications that we do not control or dictate. We have spent, and will continue to spend, significant time and resources to have our products selected by automotive OEMs and their suppliers, which we refer to as a design win. In the case of autonomous driving and ADAS technology, a design win means our lidar product has been selected for use in a particular vehicle model or models. If we do not achieve a design win with respect to a particular vehicle model, we may not have an opportunity to supply our products to the automotive OEM or its supplier for that vehicle model for a period of many years. In many cases, this period can be as long as five to seven years (or more). If our products are not selected by an automotive OEM or our suppliers for one vehicle model or if our products are not successful in that vehicle model, it is less likely that our product will be deployed in other vehicle models of that automotive OEM. If we fail to obtain design wins for a significant number of vehicle models from one or more automotive OEMs or their suppliers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our business model for the Automotive market is based on our relationships with Tier 1 suppliers. If these relationships do not materialize, automotive OEMs may be less inclined to select our products for use in their vehicle models. The period of time from a design win to implementation is long and we are subject to the risks of cancellation or postponement of the contract or unsuccessful implementation. Our forward-looking estimates of certain financial metrics may prove inaccurate. We use various estimates in formulating our business plans. We base our estimates upon a number of assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business and economic uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates therefore may prove inaccurate, causing the actual amount to differ from our estimates. These factors include, without limitation: the extent to which we meet contractual terms and conditions; the extent to which our technology is successfully integrated into our customers vehicles; the timing of when our customers adopt our technology into their vehicles on a commercial basis which could be delayed for regulatory, safety, or reliability issues unrelated to our technology; undetected or unknown errors, defects, or reliability issues in our hardware or software which could reduce the market adoption of our existing or new products; 17 loss of business with respect to, the failure or lack of commercial success of a vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier for reasons unrelated to our technology; a decline, for any reason, in the production levels of our customers, particularly with respect to models which incorporate our technology; customer cancellations of their contracts; if our products are included as part of a vehicle option package, the extent to which end customers select it; and other risk factors set forth in this Annual Report. The period of time from a design win to implementation is long and we are subject to the risks of cancellation or postponement of the contract or unsuccessful implementation. Prospective customers, including those in the automotive industry, generally must make significant commitments of resources to test and validate products like ours and confirm that they can integrate these products with other technologies before including them in any particular system, product, or model. The development cycles for our products with new customers varies widely depending on the application, market, customer, and the complexity of the product. In the Automotive market, for example, this development cycle can be five to seven years (or more). The development cycle in certain other markets can be months to one or two years (or more). These development cycles result in us investing our resources prior to realizing any revenue from commercialization. Further, we are subject to the risk that customers cancel or postpone implementation of our technology or our customers are unable to integrate our technology successfully into a larger system. If our customers face financial difficulties, they may also cancel current or future product programs that could materially and adversely impact our financial results. Further, our revenue could be less than forecasted if the system, product, or vehicle model that includes our lidar products is unsuccessful, including for reasons unrelated to our technology. Long development cycles and product cancellations or postponements may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our products require key components and critical raw materials and our inability to reduce and control the cost of such components and raw materials could negatively impact the adoption of our products and accordingly, our financial condition and operating results. The production of our components is dependent on sourcing certain key components and raw materials at acceptable price levels. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, supply chain-induced shortages of key components, leading to a scarcity of such components, a limited availability of such components at greatly inflated prices, or both. If we or our licensees or contract manufacturers are unable to adequately reduce and control the costs of such key components, we or they will be unable to realize manufacturing costs targets, which could reduce the market adoption of our products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, and have an adverse effect on our brand, business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Continued pricing pressures, automotive OEM and Tier 1 supplier cost reduction initiatives, and the ability of automotive OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers to source alternatives or cancel vehicle or technology programs may result in lower than anticipated revenues, or cause substantial losses, which may adversely affect our business. Cost-cutting initiatives adopted by our customers may result in continued downward pressure on pricing. Our agreements and partnerships with automotive OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers may require step-downs in pricing over the term of the agreement or partnership, or if commercialized, over the period of production. In addition, our automotive OEM and Tier 1 suppliers often reserve the right to terminate their supply contracts for convenience, which enhances their ability to obtain price concessions. Automotive OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers also possess significant leverage over their suppliers, including us, because the automotive component supply industry is highly competitive, serves a limited number of customers, and has a high fixed cost base. See also the risk factor entitled, We operate in a highly competitive market involving emerging technology. We compete against a number of competitors, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us, below. Automotive OEMs, like many manufacturers, are price sensitive to components used in their end products. We and our Tier 1 suppliers are sensitive to the cost we quote to such automotive OEMs to mitigate the risk of being eliminated from contention based solely on price. Despite our efforts, and the efforts of our Tier 1 suppliers, to reduce the overall cost of our products, we are not always able to achieve the cost targets we are seeking. The inability to reach our cost targets could have a material adverse impact on our ability to gain market acceptance for our products, regardless of the ability of our products to achieve the automotive OEMs' specifications. 18 Accordingly, we expect to be subject to substantial and continuing pricing pressure from automotive OEMs, Tier 1 suppliers, and lidar competitors, which may impact the revenue we receive from licensing our product designs or selling our products. It is possible that pricing pressures beyond our expectations could intensify as automotive OEMs, Tier 1 suppliers, and lidar competitors pursue restructuring, consolidation, and cost-cutting initiatives. If we are unable to identify sufficient design cost savings to meet the expectations of automotive OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. We expect to continue investing in R&D albeit at a reduced amount compared to prior years and commercializing new products, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us. Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing products to new applications and customer requirements, achieving volume-based component price reductions, and introducing new products that achieve market acceptance. We expect to continue to incur R&D costs as part of our efforts to design, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new products and enhance existing products. Our R&D expenses were approximately $26.2 million and $37.6 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and may increase in the future. Because we account for R&D as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our results of operations in the future. Further, our R&D program may not produce successful results, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue, or become profitable. Although we believe that lidar is an essential technology for autonomous vehicles and other emerging applications, market adoption of lidar is uncertain. If market adoption of lidar does not continue to develop, or adoption is deferred, or otherwise develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be adversely affected. While our artificial intelligence-driven lidar-based sensing system can be applied to different use cases across end markets, approximately 70% and 52% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, was generated from automotive applications with few customers in the aerospace, delivery, shuttle, railway, mining, and aviation sectors. Despite the fact that the automotive industry has expended considerable effort to research and test lidar products for ADAS and autonomous driving applications, the automotive industry may not introduce lidar products in commercially available vehicles on a time frame that matches our expectations, or at all. We have experienced a number of instances where potential automotive OEMs have delayed their programs for the inclusion of lidar in their end products. We continually study emerging and competing sensing technologies and methodologies and we may incorporate new sensing technologies to our product portfolio over time. However, lidar products remain relatively new and it is possible that other sensing modalities, or a new disruptive modality based on new or existing technologies, including a combination of technologies, will achieve acceptance or leadership in the ADAS and autonomous driving space. Even if lidar products are used in initial generations of autonomous driving technology and ADAS products, we cannot guarantee that lidar products will be designed into or included in subsequent generations of such commercialized technology. The speed of market adoption and growth for ADAS or autonomous vehicles is difficult, if not impossible, to predict, and it is more difficult to predict this markets future growth in light of the economic consequences of the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other macroeconomic factors. Although we currently believe we have a differentiated market leading technology for the autonomous vehicle market, by the time mass market adoption of autonomous vehicle technology is achieved, we expect competition among providers of sensing technology based on lidar and other modalities to increase substantially. If, by the time autonomous vehicle technology achieves mass market adoption, commercialization of lidar products is not successful, or not as successful as we or the market expects, or if other sensing modalities gain acceptance by developers of ADAS products, automotive OEMs, regulators, safety organizations, or other market participants, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Over the longer term, we believe that our overall revenue growth, if any, will depend in part on our ability to expand within new markets such as aerospace and defense, shuttle, delivery vehicle, drone, railway, intelligent transport, mining and other markets as they emerge. Each of these markets presents distinct risks and, in many cases, requires that we expend resources to address the particular requirements of that market. Addressing these requirements can be time-consuming and costly. The market for lidar technology is relatively new, rapidly developing, and unproven in many markets or industries. Many of our prospective customers are still in the testing and development phases and we cannot be certain that they will commercialize products or systems with our lidar products, or at all. We cannot be certain that lidar will be sold into these markets, or that lidar will be sold into any markets at scale. Adoption of lidar products, including our products, will depend on numerous factors, including whether the technological capabilities of lidar and lidar-based products meet users current or anticipated needs, whether the benefits associated with designing lidar into larger sensing systems outweighs the costs, complexity, and time needed to deploy such technology or replace or modify existing systems that may have used other modalities, such as cameras and radar, whether users in other applications can move beyond the testing and development phases and proceed to commercializing systems supported by lidar technology and whether lidar developers such as us can keep pace with the expected rapid technological change in certain developing markets, and the global response to the 19 lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other macroeconomic factors, and the length of any associated economic recovery. If lidar technology does not achieve commercial success, or if adoption of lidar is deferred or the market otherwise develops at a pace slower than we expect, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations. Over the long term, we expect to experience significant growth in the scope and nature of our operations. Our ability to manage our operations and future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls, legal and compliance programs, and reporting systems. We may not be able to implement improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing controls, programs, systems, and procedures, which could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, and financial results. We rely on third-party suppliers and because some of the raw materials and key components in our products come from limited or single source suppliers, we are susceptible to supply shortages, longer than anticipated lead times for components, and supply changes, any of which could disrupt our supply chain and could delay deliveries of our products to customers. Most of the components that go into the manufacturing of our solutions are sourced from third-party suppliers. To date, we have produced our products in relatively limited quantities for use in R&D programs. Although we do not have any experience in managing our supply chain to manufacture and deliver our products at scale, our future success will depend on our ability to do so. Some of the key components used to manufacture our products come from limited or single source suppliers. We are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that our suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. As we rely on a global supply chain, the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, other epidemics and outbreaks, should they materialize, and other macroeconomic factors may adversely affect our ability to source components in a timely or cost-effective manner from our third-party suppliers due to, among other things, work stoppages or interruptions. For example, our products depend on lasers. Any shortage in the availability of these lasers could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture our solutions. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. While we have entered into agreements with some suppliers for the supply of certain components at set prices, such quantities are limited given we are not yet producing at scale. Therefore, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, component shortages and significant price fluctuations of key components and materials, and the predictability of the availability and pricing of these components may be limited. Component shortages or pricing fluctuations could be material in the future, which could be exacerbated by employee retention issues at any of our suppliers. In the event of a component shortage, supply interruption, or a material pricing change from suppliers of these components, we may not be able to develop alternate sources in a timely manner, or at all, especially in the case of sole or limited source items. Developing alternate sources of supply for these components may be time-consuming, difficult, and costly and we may not be able to source these components on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which may undermine our ability to meet our requirements or to fill customer orders in a timely manner. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would adversely affect our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers. This could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and partners and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. Even where we are able to pass increased component costs along to our customers, there may be a lapse of time before we are able to do so such that we will be required to absorb some or all of the increased cost. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers, which may result in such customers using competitive products instead of our products. We may face risks associated with our reliance on certain artificial intelligence and machine learning models. We rely on deterministic artificial intelligence and machine learning models in the development of our solutions for vehicle autonomy, ADAS, and industrial applications. The models that we use are developed or trained using various data sets. If the models are incorrectly designed, the data we use to train them is incomplete, inadequate, or biased in some way, or if we do not have sufficient rights to use the data on which our models rely, the performance of our products, services, and business, as well as our reputation, could suffer or we could incur liability through the violation of laws, third-party privacy or other rights, or contracts to which we are a party. 20 Our outsourced manufacturing business model for the industrial market may not be successful, which could harm our ability to deliver products and recognize revenue in the industrial market. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we made the decision to wind down our existing industrial product and we will curtail support for this end market until we have achieved sufficient scale in our automotive products, which we believe represents our largest market opportunity. If we fail to achieve sufficient scale in our automotive products, we may not be in a position to reenter the Industrial market in the time frame we expect, or at all. Our manufacturing strategy for the industrial market had been focused on outsourcing volume manufacturing to contract manufacturers while maintaining the design, engineering, prototyping, testing, and pilot manufacturing in-house at our facility in Dublin, California. Reliance on third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, including reduced control over quality, product costs, and product supply and timing. We may experience delays in shipments or issues concerning product quality from our third-party manufacturers. If any of our third-party manufacturers experience interruptions, delays, or disruptions in supplying our products, including by natural disasters, the lingering effects of the global COVID-19 pandemic, or if other epidemics or outbreaks of other contagions materialize, increased military conflict, especially in Ukraine and the Middle East, or work stoppages or capacity constraints, our ability to ship products would be delayed. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could result in financial distress among third-party manufacturers upon which we rely, thereby increasing the risk of disruption of supplies necessary to fulfill our production requirements and meet customer demands. Additionally, if any of our third-party manufacturers experience quality control problems in their manufacturing operations and our products do not meet customer or regulatory requirements, we could be required to cover the cost of repair or replacement of any defective products. These delays or product quality issues could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill orders and could have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, such delays or issues with product quality could adversely affect our reputation and our relationship with our channel partners. If our third-party manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity, or other difficulties, or experience shortages in required components, or if they are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our products in required volumes or at all, our supply may be disrupted, we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers, and we may be required to redesign our products. It would be time-consuming, and could be costly and impracticable, to begin to use new manufacturers or designs, and such changes could cause significant interruptions in supply and could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries, and may subsequently lead to the loss of sales. While we take measures to protect our trade secrets, the use of third-party manufacturers may also risk disclosure of our innovative and proprietary manufacturing methodologies, which could adversely affect our business. We, our outsourcing partners, and our suppliers rely on complex machinery for production of our lidar solutions, which involves a significant degree of risk and uncertainty in terms of operational performance and costs. We, our outsourcing partners, and our suppliers rely on complex machinery for the production, assembly, and installation of our lidar solutions, which involve a significant degree of uncertainty and risk in terms of operational performance and maintenance costs. In addition, the cost to procure such machinery can be significant and, in many instances, such costs will be paid by us. Our limited in-house production facility, and the facilities of our outsourcing partners and suppliers, consist of large-scale machinery combining many components. These components may suffer unexpected malfunctions from time to time and will require repairs and spare parts to resume operations, which may not be available when needed. Unexpected malfunctions of these components may significantly affect intended operational efficiency. Operational performance and costs can be difficult to predict and are often influenced by factors outside of our control, such as, but not limited to, scarcity of natural resources, environmental hazards and remediation, costs associated with decommissioning of machines, labor disputes and strikes, difficulty or delays in obtaining governmental permits, damages or defects in electronic systems, industrial accidents, fires, seismic activity, and other natural and manufactured disasters. Should such operational risks materialize, it may result in personal injury to or death of workers, loss of production equipment, damage to production facilities, monetary losses, delays, and unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage, administrative fines, increased insurance costs and potential legal liabilities, some of which may be the responsibility of our outsourcing partners and suppliers, but could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. 21 Our sales and operations in international markets expose us to associated operational, financial, and regulatory risks. Sales to international customers accounted for 16% and 32% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. International operations are subject to a number of other risks, including: exchange rate fluctuations; political and economic instability, international terrorism, and anti-American sentiment, particularly in emerging markets; global or regional health crises, such as the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics or outbreaks of other contagions; increasing military conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East; potential for violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as those related to bribery and fraud; preference for locally branded products, and laws and business practices favoring local competition; potential consequences of, and uncertainty related to, the Brexit process in the United Kingdom, which could lead to additional expense and complexity in doing business there; increased difficulty in managing inventory; delayed revenue recognition; the potential for less effective protection of intellectual property; stringent regulation of autonomous driving or other systems or products using our products and stringent consumer protection and product compliance regulations, including, but not limited, to the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, in the European Union, European competition law, the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE, and the European Ecodesign Directive, all of which are costly to comply with and may vary from country to country; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; import and export laws and the impact of tariffs; changes in local tax and customs duty laws or changes in the enforcement, application, or interpretation of such laws; and the U.S. governments restrictions on technology transfers to certain countries. The occurrence of any of these risks could negatively affect our international business and consequently our business, operating results, and financial condition. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects, errors, or reliability issues in our hardware or software which could reduce the market adoption of our products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, expose us to product liability and other claims, and thereby adversely affect our operating costs. Our products are highly technical, very complex, and require high standards to manufacture. Our products have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, defects, errors, or reliability issues at various stages of development, production, and use. We may be unable to timely release new products, manufacture existing products, correct problems that have arisen, or correct such problems to our customers satisfaction. Additionally, undetected errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities, especially as new products are introduced or as new versions are released, could result in serious injury to the end users of the technology incorporating our products, or those in the surrounding area, our customers never being able to commercialize technology incorporating our products, litigation against us, negative publicity, and other consequences. These risks are 22 particularly prevalent in the highly competitive autonomous driving and ADAS markets. Some errors or defects in our products may only be discovered after they have been tested, commercialized, and deployed by customers. If that is the case, we may incur significant additional development costs and product recall, repair, or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims, including class actions, against us. Our reputation or brand may be damaged as a result of these problems and customers may be reluctant to buy our products thereafter, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, and could adversely affect our financial results. Our products are intended to be combined with third-party hardware and software as part of a larger system. These larger systems are also highly technical, complex, and require high standards to manufacture. The third-party components incorporated into these larger systems, have been and will be subject to defects, errors, and reliability issues during development, production, and use. Should these third-party components, which our products are intended to be combined with, fail or require action to correct defects or errors, it would likely delay the sale of the larger system in which our products are to be incorporated, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. As the production of third-party components are largely outside of our control, we are subject to such third parties investing sufficient time and resources to manufacture their products without minimal defects. For example, if a third-party reseller intended to overlay perception software on our product prior to resale, but such perception software contained defects or errors such that it could not be introduced into the market, the sales of our products would be delayed or cancelled, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. In addition, we could face material legal claims for breach of contract, product liability, fraud, tort, or breach of warranty as a result. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our products. In addition, any insurance coverage we may have could prove inadequate with respect to a claim and future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, or at all. These product-related issues could result in claims against us and our business could be adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers intend to use our solutions in autonomous driving and ADAS applications; the operation of motor vehicles, even with our solutions embedded, presents the risk of significant injury, including fatalities. We may be subject to claims if a product using our lidar technology is involved in an accident and persons are injured or purport to be injured. Any insurance that we carry may not be sufficient or it may not apply to all situations. Similarly, our customers could be subjected to claims as a result of such accidents and bring legal claims against us to attempt to hold us liable. In addition, if lawmakers or governmental agencies were to determine that the use of our products, autonomous driving, or certain other ADAS applications, increased the risk of injury to all or a subset of our customers, they may pass laws or adopt regulations that limit the use of our products, increase the liability associated with the use of our products, or regulate the use of or delay the deployment of autonomous driving and ADAS technology. Any of these events could adversely affect our brand, relationships with customers, operating results, or financial condition. Suppliers to automotive OEMs may require that we provide a warranty, either directly or indirectly, on our products, including our embedded software. The occurrence of any material defects in our products during the warranty period could make us liable for damages and warranty claims. In addition, we could incur significant costs to correct any defects, warranty claims, or other problems, including costs related to product recalls. Any negative publicity related to the perceived quality of our products could affect our brand image, partner and customer demand, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, warranty, recall and product liability claims may result in litigation, including class actions, the occurrence of which could be costly, lengthy, and distracting, and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory or if we do not adequately manage our inventory, we could lose sales or incur higher inventory-related expenses, including write-downs related to obsolete or excess items, which could negatively affect our operating results. To ensure adequate inventory, we must forecast inventory needs and expenses, place orders sufficiently in advance with our suppliers and manufacturing partners, and manufacture products based on our estimates of future demand for particular products. Fluctuations in the adoption of lidar products may affect our ability to forecast our future operating results, including revenue, gross margins, cash flows, and profitability. Our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products could be affected by many factors, including the accuracy of the forecasts that we receive from our customers, the rapidly changing nature of the autonomous driving and ADAS markets in which we operate, the uncertainty surrounding the market acceptance and commercialization of lidar technology, the emergence of new markets, an increase or decrease in customer demand for our products or for products and services of our competitors, product introductions by competitors, the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, 23 other epidemics or outbreaks of other contagions should they materialize, any work stoppages or interruptions, unanticipated changes in general market conditions, and the general weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence, which may be exacerbated by the on-going military actions in Ukraine and the Middle East. If our lidar products are commercialized in autonomous driving and ADAS applications, both of which are experiencing rapid growth in demand, we may face challenges acquiring adequate supplies to manufacture our products and/or we and our manufacturing partners may not be able to manufacture our products at a rate necessary to satisfy the levels of demand, which would negatively affect our revenue. This risk may be enhanced by the fact that we may not carry or be able to obtain for our manufacturing partners a significant level of inventory to satisfy short-term increases in demand. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products available-for-sale. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would adversely affect our financial results, including our gross margin, and have a negative effect on our brand. In the past, including in the fourth quarter of 2023, we took inventory write-downs for obsolete and excess components associated with our decision to wind-down our industrial product line. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand for our products, we, or our manufacturing partners, may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in damage to our brand and customer relationships, and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The average selling prices of our products or our fees or royalties from technology licenses could decrease rapidly over the life of the product or license term, which may negatively affect our revenue and gross margin. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of our products generally as our customers seek to commercialize autonomous systems at prices low enough to achieve market acceptance or due to competitive pressures. In order to sell products that have a falling average unit selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we will need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. To manage manufacturing costs, we and our Tier 1 partners must continually engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. In addition, we continuously drive initiatives to reduce assembly cost, improve efficiency, reduce the cost of materials, use fewer materials, and further lower overall product costs by carefully managing component prices, inventory, and shipping costs. We also need to continually introduce new and competitive products in order to maintain our overall gross margin. We may also experience declines in fees or royalties from licensing our technology as customers reduce the prices of products incorporating our licensed technology in order to achieve market acceptance or due to competitive pressures. If we are unable to manage the cost structure of our products, successfully introduce new products with higher gross margins, and develop new technology that we can license at attractive royalty rates, our revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. Adverse conditions in the automotive industry or downturns in domestic or global economic conditions, or other macroeconomic factors more generally, could have adverse effects on our results of operations. While we make our strategic planning decisions based on the assumption that the markets we are targeting will grow, our business is dependent, in large part on, and directly affected by, business cycles and other factors affecting the global automotive industry and the global economy generally. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences, changes in interest rates (which have recently seen significant increases) and credit availability, changes in inflation rates (which the U.S. has recently experienced), consumer confidence, fuel costs, fuel availability, environmental impact, governmental incentives and regulatory requirements, and political volatility, especially in energy-producing countries and growth markets. Increases in interest rates, especially if coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks, which may impact our ability to raise additional capital in the future. The March 2023 failure of Silicon Valley Bank and its potential near- and long-term effects on the technology industry and its participants such as our vendors, suppliers, and investors, may also adversely affect our operations and stock price. In addition, the recent outbreak of hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, the war in the Middle East, and global reactions thereto have increased U.S. domestic and global energy prices. Oil supply disruptions related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and sanctions and other measures taken by the U.S. and its allies, could lead to higher costs for gas, food, and goods in the U.S. and exacerbate the inflationary pressures on the economy, with potentially adverse impacts on our customers and on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, certain raw materials needed to produce components that are incorporated into our products, and the products of our customers, are primarily derived in the region in which the Russia-Ukraine conflict is occurring. The longer the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues and the more damage to Ukrainian infrastructure that occurs, the greater the impact could be on the supply of such raw materials, and the failure to have access to such raw materials could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, or CISA, has warned all organizations in the U.S. to be on guard against possible cyber attacks coming from Russia which has the potential to disrupt business operations, limit access to essential services, and threaten public safety. 24 Automotive production and sales can also be affected by our automotive OEM and Tier 1 supplier customers ability to continue operating in response to challenging economic conditions and in response to labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements, and other factors, such as the unavailability of unrelated components in the assembly of automobiles, an example of which is the shortage of semiconductors necessary for automobile production. The volume of automotive production in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and we expect such fluctuations to give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products and licenses of our technology. Any significant adverse change in any of these factors may result in a reduction in automotive sales and production by our automotive OEM and Tier 1 supplier customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Customers with which we enter into supply agreements may require changes to our products or may be subject to renegotiation or termination in a short time period, which would materially and adversely affect our business. If we and our partners are able to secure design wins so that our solutions are included in autonomous driving and ADAS products, we expect that we, or our Tier 1 partners will enter into supply agreements with that customer. Market practice dictates that these supply agreements typically require us to supply a customers requirements for a particular vehicle model or autonomous driving or ADAS product, rather than supply a set number of products. These arrangements can have short terms, be subject to renegotiation, or may be reduced or otherwise terminated, the occurrence of any of which may affect product pricing and future profitability. Therefore, even if we are successful in obtaining design wins, and we or our Tier 1 partners are able to enter into definitive agreements with OEMs, and the systems into which our products are built are commercialized, the discontinuation of, the loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of a particular vehicle model or technology package for which we are a significant supplier could mean that the expected sales of our products will not materialize, materially and adversely affecting our business. Since many of the markets in which we compete are new and rapidly evolving, it is difficult to forecast long-term end-customer adoption rates and demand for our products. We are pursuing opportunities in markets that are undergoing rapid changes, including technological and regulatory changes, and it is difficult to predict the timing and size of the opportunities. For example, autonomous driving and lidar-based ADAS applications require the utilization of complex technology. Because these systems depend on technology from many companies, commercialization of autonomous driving or ADAS products could be delayed or impaired on account of certain technological components not being ready to be deployed in automobiles. We are in the process of developing necessary relationships with commercial partners which may not result in the commercialization of our technology immediately, or at all. Regulatory, safety, or reliability developments, many of which are outside of our control, could also cause delays or otherwise impair commercial adoption of these new technologies, which will adversely affect our growth. Our future financial performance will depend on our ability to make timely investments in emerging market opportunities. If one or more of these markets experience a shift in customer or prospective customer demand, our products may not compete as effectively, if at all, and they may not be designed into commercialized products. Given the evolving nature of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult to predict customer demand or adoption rates for our products or the future growth of these markets. If demand does not develop or if we cannot accurately forecast customer demand, the size or timing of our markets, inventory requirements, or our future financial results, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be adversely affected. We currently have and target many customers that are large corporations with substantial negotiating power, exacting product standards, and potentially competitive internal solutions. If we are unable to sell our products to these customers, our prospects and results of operations will be adversely affected. Many of our current and potential customers are large, multinational corporations with substantial negotiating power relative to us and, in some instances, may have internal solutions that are competitive to our products. These large, multinational corporations also have significant development resources, which may allow them to acquire or develop independently, or in partnership with others, competitive technologies. Meeting the technical requirements and securing design wins with any of these companies will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We cannot assure you that our products will secure design wins from these or other companies or that we will generate meaningful revenue from the sales of our products to these key potential customers. If our products are not selected by these potential customers or if these potential customers develop or acquire competitive technology, it will have an adverse effect on our business. 25 Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our large customers or strategic partners, if their demand for our products declined due to factors outside of our control, including component shortages (whether related to our products or otherwise) that impact our customers overall production plans or product development plans, or if our customers were unable to pay their invoices. Although we have and continue to pursue a broad customer base, we are dependent on a collection of customer relationships which are currently in development with strong purchasing power. Continental AG accounted for approximately 70% and 51% of our annual revenue in the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. At the end of 2023, Continental informed us of its decision to end our existing arrangement as our Tier 1 supplier. The loss of business from any of our major customers (whether by lower overall demand for our products, component shortages that impact our customers production plans or product development plans, cancellation of existing contracts or product orders, or the failure to design in our products, or an award of initial or new business) could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent autonomous vehicle and ADAS become accepted by major automotive OEMs, we expect that we will rely increasingly for our revenue on Tier 1 suppliers through which automotive OEMs procure components. We expect that these Tier 1 suppliers will be responsible for certain hardware and software configuration activities specific to each automotive OEM, and they may not exclusively carry our solutions. There is also a risk that one or more of our major customers could be unable to pay our invoices as they become due or that a customer will simply refuse to make such payments if it experiences financial difficulties. If our customers face financial difficulties, they may also cancel current or future product programs that could materially and adversely impact our financial results. If a major customer were to enter into bankruptcy proceedings or similar proceedings whereby contractual commitments are subject to a stay and the possibility of modifications, we could be forced to record a substantial loss. If we are unable to establish and maintain confidence in our long-term business prospects among customers and analysts within our industry or we are subject to negative publicity, then our financial condition, operating results, business prospects, and access to capital may suffer materially. Customers may be less likely to purchase our lidar solutions if they are not convinced that our business will succeed or that our service and support and other operations will continue in the long term. Similarly, suppliers and other third parties will be less likely to invest time and resources in developing business relationships with us if they are not convinced that our business will succeed. Accordingly, in order to build and maintain our business, we must maintain confidence among customers, suppliers, analysts, ratings agencies, and others in our products, long-term financial viability, and business prospects. Maintaining such confidence may be particularly complicated by certain factors including those that are largely outside of our control, such as our limited operating history, our ability to continue funding the business through to profitability, customer familiarity with our lidar solutions, any delays in scaling production, delivery, and service operations to meet demand, competition, uncertainty regarding the future of autonomous vehicles, and our production and sales performance compared with market expectations. Our investments in educating our customers and potential customers about the advantages of lidar and our applications may not result in sales of our products. Educating our prospective customers, and to a lesser extent, our existing customers, about lidar, our advantages over other sensing technologies, and lidars ability to convey value in different industries and deployments is an integral part of developing new business and the lidar market generally. If prospective customers have a negative perception of, or experience with, lidar, or a competitors lidar products, they may be reluctant to adopt lidar in general or specifically our products. Adverse statements about lidar by influential market participants may also deter adoption. Some of our competitors have significant financial or marketing resources that may allow them to engage in public marketing campaigns about their alternative technology, lidar generally, or our solutions specifically. Our efforts to educate potential customers and the market generally, and to counter any adverse statements made by competitors or other market participants, will require significant financial and personnel resources. These educational efforts may not be successful, and we may not be in a position to offset the costs of such efforts with revenue from new customers. If we are unable to acquire new customers to offset these expenses or if the market accepts such adverse statements, our financial condition will be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive market involving emerging technology. We compete against a number of competitors, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us. The markets for sensing technology applicable to autonomous solutions across numerous industries are highly competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to achieve a leadership position in our targeted 26 markets by continuing to develop, and protect from infringement, advanced lidar technology in a timely manner and to stay ahead of existing and new competitors. Our competitors compete with us directly by offering lidar products and indirectly by attempting to solve some of the same challenges with different technologies. Our current and future competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, established relationships, or existing contracts with Tier 1 suppliers and/or OEMs, and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. We face competition from a number of sources including camera and radar companies, other developers of lidar products, Tier 1 suppliers, and other technology and automotive supply companies. In the Automotive market, our competitors have commercialized both lidar and non-lidar-based ADAS technology that has achieved market adoption, strong brand recognition, and is expected to improve over time. Other competitors are working towards commercializing autonomous driving technology and either by themselves, or with a publicly announced partner, and have substantial financial, marketing, R&D, and other resources. Some of our customers in the autonomous vehicle and ADAS markets have announced development efforts or made acquisitions directed at creating their own lidar-based or other sensing technologies, which would compete with our solutions. We do not know how close these competitors are to commercializing autonomous driving systems or novel ADAS applications. In markets outside of the automotive industry, our competitors seek to develop new sensing applications across industries. Even in these emerging markets, we face substantial competition from numerous competitors seeking to prove the value of their technology. Additionally, competition may result in pricing pressure and reduced margins, and may impede our ability to secure design wins, successfully enter into definitive agreements or other commercial arrangements, or successfully commercialize our products at scale, which may prevent us from achieving our projected market share. In particular, our competitors have in the past offered, and may in the future offer, their products and services on terms that we and/or our Tier 1 partners are unwilling to match, or our competitors could introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics, which may adversely affect our market share. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, which requires us to continue to develop new products and product innovations, and could adversely affect market adoption of our products. While we intend to invest substantial resources to remain on the forefront of technological development, continuing technological changes in sensing technology and lidar, and the markets for these products, including the ADAS and autonomous driving space, could adversely affect adoption of lidar and/or our products, either generally or for particular applications. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and innovations to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our products. We cannot guarantee that such new products will be released in a timely manner, or at all, or achieve market acceptance. Delays in delivering new products that meet customer requirements could damage our relationships with customers and lead them to seek alternative sources of supply. In addition, to date, we have focused on the delivery of our solutions to R&D programs in which developers are investing substantial capital to develop new systems that incorporate our solutions. Our future success relies heavily on the outcome of the R&D efforts by these customers. As autonomous technology reaches the stage of large-scale commercialization, we will be required to develop and deliver solutions at price points that enable wider and ultimately mass-market adoption. Delays in introducing products and innovations, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives, or the failure to offer innovative products or configurations at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to purchase our competitors products or turn to alternative sensing technologies. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop products or cannot otherwise successfully develop products or system configurations that meet customer requirements on a timely basis or that remain competitive with alternatives, our products will lose market share, our revenue will decline, we will experience operating losses, and our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Developments in alternative technologies may adversely affect the demand for our technology. Significant developments in alternative technologies, such as cameras and radar, may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results in ways we do not currently anticipate. Existing and future camera and radar technologies may emerge as customers preferred alternative to our solutions. Any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, or to react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay our development and introduction of new and enhanced products in the autonomous vehicle industry, which could result in the loss of competitiveness of our lidar solutions, decreased revenue, and a loss of market share to competitors (or a failure to increase revenue and/or market share). Our R&D efforts may not be sufficient to adapt to changes in technology. As technologies change, we plan to upgrade or adapt our lidar solutions with the latest technology. However, our solutions may not compete effectively with alternative systems if we are not able to source and integrate the latest technology into our existing lidar solutions. 27 The Common Stock Purchase Agreement, or CSPA, we entered into with Tumim Stone Capital LLC, or Tumim Stone, in December 2021 contains contractual limitations that may not allow us to draw all of the $125 million committed under the CSPA and to the extent we do draw under the CSPA, existing stockholders will be diluted. In December 2021, we entered into the CSPA with Tumim Stone pursuant to which Tumim Stone committed to purchase, subject to certain limitations, up to $125 million of our common stock should we elect to sell our common stock to them. On May 6, 2022, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1, which originally related to the offer and resale of up to 30,865,419 shares of our common stock, or 1,028,847 shares of our common stock following the Reverse Stock Split, to be purchased by Tumim Stone, pursuant to the CSPA. Should we decide to sell our common stock to Tumim Stone, stockholders will experience dilution of their interest in us, which dilution will be heightened if the price at which we sell common stock is low, as there is no minimum price at which we can sell our common stock under the CSPA. Moreover, under the CSPA, with some exceptions, we can only sell to Tumim Stone the lesser of: (i) a total of 1,028,847 post-split shares of our common stock or (ii) a number of shares where Tumim Stone would own no more than 9.99% of our outstanding shares, which at March 20, 2024 we had 6,502,979 total shares outstanding. At values below $121.50 per share post-split, we would likely not be in a position to realize the full commitment of $125 million under the CSPA and existing stockholders would experience significant dilution. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has issued 67,754 post-split shares of its common stock under the CSPA for proceeds of $3.0 million. Therefore, the actual number of shares we will be able to sell to Tumim Stone, the amount of dilution our stockholders will experience upon the sale of our common stock under the CSPA, and the total proceeds that we will derive from such sales, cannot be determined at this time. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be adversely affected. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure