Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and projections about our industry, business, and future financial results. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those described in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed below and those set forth under Risk Factors herein and other filings we make with the SEC from time to time. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, us, and AEye, refer to the business and operations of AEye, Inc. Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important to understanding our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. All dollar amounts expressed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are in thousands of dollars, except for per share amounts and unless otherwise specified. Key Factors Affecting AEye's Operating Results We believe that our future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on our ability to capitalize on the opportunities described herein, which in turn are subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below, as well as the risk factors described in the section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled Risk Factors. We are subject to those risks common in the technology industry and also those risks common to early stage companies including, but not limited to, the possibility of not being able to successfully develop or commercialize our products; secure additional capital in a timely manner in order to meet operating cash flow needs; secure a "design win" with potential customers, which in our case is automotive OEMs and their suppliers; attract new customers and retain our existing customers; develop and protect our intellectual property; comply with existing and new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; and successfully develop new solutions to enhance the experience of, and deliver value to, our customers. Market Trends and Uncertainties We anticipate growing demand for our 4SightTM Intelligent Sensing Platform across two major markets - Automotive and Industrial. In the near term, we anticipate concentrating on the Automotive market to more effectively leverage our business model. In the Industrial market, we will continue to remain engaged with customers, but have narrowed our focus to select opportunities that are more of a fit from a product and revenue-generation standpoint. Within those markets, we are targeting attractive segments, including advanced driver-assistance systems, or ADAS, autonomous driving, commercial trucking, robo-taxis, and various Industrial market segments such as mining, aerospace, defense, railway, and intelligent transportation systems, or ITS. This provides us with multiple opportunities for sustained growth by enabling new applications and product features across these market segments. However, as our customers continue R&D projects to commercialize solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end markets and customer adoption. In the Automotive market for example, which accounted for 81% and 58% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, our growth and financial performance will be heavily influenced by our ability to successfully integrate into OEM programs that require years of development, testing, and validation. Because of the size and complexity of these OEM programs, we see our existing Tier 1 partnerships as a significant competitive advantage given the large scale, mass-production capabilities, and existing OEM customer relationships held by our Tier 1 partners. Our primary focus in the Automotive market is on ADAS for passenger and commercial vehicle autonomy, particularly highway autonomy applications. We believe that growth in that market is driven by both more stringent safety regulations and consumer demand for vehicles offering increased safety and advanced driver assist features. We will need to anticipate and adapt to any changes in the regulatory environment, as well as changes in consumer demand in order to take advantage of this opportunity. 19 Additionally, we are strategically managing our investments in certain international operations and partnerships that will position us to expand our business globally and meet growing demand in international markets. This is an important part of our core strategy and may expose us to additional factors such as foreign currency risk, additional operating costs, and other risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet projected sales and margin targets. Partnerships and Commercialization Our technology is designed to be a key enabler in certain Automotive and Industrial market applications. Because our technology must be integrated into a broader solution by our customers, it is critical that we achieve design wins with these customers. The timing of these design wins varies based on the market and application. Achieving a design win with an OEM in the Automotive market may take considerably longer than a design win with customers in the Industrial market. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although the revenue generated by each design win and the time necessary to achieve such a win can vary significantly, making it difficult to predict our future financial performance. We believe our revenue and profitability will also be dependent upon our success in licensing our technology to Tier 1 automotive suppliers, such as Continental, which represented 81% and 58% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, that intend to use our technology in volume production of lidar sensors for OEMs. Delays of autonomy programs by OEMs that we are currently or will be working with through our Tier 1 partners could result in us being unable to achieve our revenue and profitability targets in the time frame we anticipate. Our overall revenue and profitability will also be dependent upon our success in selling our lidar solutions to customers in the Industrial market. Restructuring In the first quarter of 2023, we began the implementation of a revised strategic plan which outlines the steps we are taking to focus on key products and critical customer engagements that we believe will generate the best long-term results for our stakeholders. As a part of the implementation of the revised strategic plan, we have realigned our resources which included reducing our workforce by approximately one-third, most of which was effective April 3, 2023. Our revised plan also includes other significant operating expense reductions. Gross Margin Improvement Our gross margins will depend on numerous factors, including, among others, the selling price of our products, pricing of our development contracts with customers, royalty rates on licenses we grant to our customers, unit volumes, product mix, component costs, personnel costs, contract manufacturing costs, overhead costs, and product features. In the future, we expect to generate attractive gross margins from licensing our lidar technology and software to our Tier 1 partners in the Automotive market. We also sell our own lidar solutions to customers in the Industrial market utilizing lower-cost components that are sourced in part from the Tier 2 automotive supply chain and assembled by our contract manufacturing partners. If our Tier 1 partners in the Automotive market do not achieve the volumes that we expect, then the cost of the components we use to address the Industrial market may not decrease to the extent we anticipate and our gross margins and our ability to achieve profitability in the future may be impacted. To date, our revenue has been generated through development contracts with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, as well as unit sales of our products to Industrial customers. These development contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4Sight capabilities to our customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of particular perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. In general, development contracts that require more complex configurations have higher prices. We expect development contracts to remain a significant part of our business in the near-term, but represent a smaller share of our total revenue over time, as we increase our focus on technology licensing and product sales. We expect our gross margins from the sale of products to improve over time as we outsource volume production of our lidar sensors to contract manufacturers, which we anticipate will both increase unit volumes and reduce the cost per unit. In September 2021, we commenced our transition process to contract manufacturers, and we completed this transition in March 2023. Investment and Innovation Our proprietary adaptive, intelligent lidar technology delivers industry-leading performance that helps to 20 solve the most difficult challenges in delivering partial or full autonomy. While traditional sensing systems passively collect data, our active 4Sight Intelligent Sensing Platform leverages principles from automated targeting systems and biomimicry to scan the environment, while intelligently focusing on what matters most in order to enable safer, smarter, and faster decisions in complex scenarios. We believe our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain a technology leadership position. This is further dependent on the investments we make in R&D. It is essential that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, develop and introduce innovative new products, enhance and service existing products, and generate strong market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Basis of Presentation We currently conduct our business through one operating segment. Components of Results of Operations Total Revenues We categorize our revenue as (1) prototype sales and (2) development contracts. In 2023 and 2022, our prototype sales revenue primarily related to unit sales of the companys 4Sight M product. Revenue from prototype sales is typically recognized at a point in time when the control of goods is transferred to the customer, generally upon delivery or shipment to the customer. Development contracts represented the majority of our total revenues in 2022 and the first quarter of 2023. Revenue from development and/or collaboration arrangement contracts are earned from R&D activities and collaboration with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers. These contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4Sight capabilities to our customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. Revenue from development contracts is recognized when we satisfy performance obligations in the contract, which can result in recognition at either a point in time or over time. This assessment is made at the outset of the arrangement for each performance obligation. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes the costs directly associated with the production of prototypes and certain costs associated with development contracts. Such costs for prototypes include direct materials, direct labor, indirect labor, inventory write-downs, warranty expense, and allocation of overhead. Costs associated with development contracts include the direct costs and allocation of overhead costs involved in the execution of the contracts. Operating Expenses Research and Development Our research and development, or R&D, efforts are focused primarily on hardware, software, and system engineering related to the design and development of our advanced lidar solutions. R&D expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, severance, and stock-based compensation expense; third-party engineering and contractor costs; lab equipment; engineering parts and test units: new hardware and software expenses; and allocated overhead expenses. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. We expect our investment in R&D to be reduced this fiscal year as a result of our revised strategic plan, with a reduced workforce and consolidated global footprint. We also plan to execute more focused spending with vendors in critical areas that support our strategy and product development, in line with our revised strategic plan and manage costs more efficiently. 21 Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing, or S&M, efforts are focused primarily on sales, business development, and marketing programs in pursuit of revenue contracts from potential and existing customers. S&M expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, severance, and stock-based compensation expense; demonstration equipment; trade shows expenses, advertising, and promotions expenses for press releases and other public relations services; and allocated overhead expenses. We expect our S&M expenses to be reduced this fiscal year as a result of our revised strategic plan, with a reduced workforce and consolidated global footprint. We also plan to focus our sales and marketing efforts on key products and critical customer engagements to support our revised strategic plan and manage costs more efficiently. General and Administrative Our general and administrative, or G&A, spending supports all business functions. G&A expenses include: personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, severance, and stock-based compensation expense for executive, finance, legal, human resources, technical support, and other administrative personnel; consulting, accounting, audit, legal, and other professional fees; insurance premiums, software and computer equipment costs, general office expenses; and allocated overhead expenses. We expect our G&A expenses to to be reduced this fiscal year as a result of our revised strategic plan with a reduced workforce and consolidated global footprint. We also plan to manage spending with suppliers and vendors more effectively to support our revised strategic plan to manage costs. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Note and Warrant Liabilities Changes in fair value of the 2022 Note and warrant liabilities are the result of the change in fair value at each reporting date. The 2022 Note and warrant liabilities are recorded at fair value for each reporting period, and the changes in fair value are reported within other income (expense), net during the period. We have also elected to record interest expense on the 2022 Note as changes in fair value. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest expense and other consists primarily of convertible note issuance costs and amortization of premiums (accretion of discounts) on marketable securities, net. 22 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this report. The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % Prototype sales $ 125 $ 335 $ (210) (63) % Development contracts 511 747 (236) (32) % Total revenue 636 1,082 (446) (41) % Cost of revenue 2,261 1,482 779 53 % Gross loss (1,625) (400) (1,225) 306 % Research and development 9,442 8,576 866 10 % Sales and marketing 6,268 4,616 1,652 36 % General and administrative 8,554 11,330 (2,776) (25) % Total operating expenses 24,264 24,522 (258) (1) % Loss from operations (25,889) (24,922) (967) 4 % Change in fair value of convertible note and warrant liabilities (810) (32) (778) 2,431 % Interest income and other 277 424 (147) (35) % Interest expense and other 176 (343) 519 (151) % Total other income (expense), net (357) 49 (406) (829) % Provision for income tax expense 19 8 11 138 % Net loss $ (26,265) $ (24,881) $ (1,384) 6 % Revenue Prototype Sales Prototype sales revenue decreased by $210, or 63%, to $125 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $335 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to fewer units sold resulting from a temporary pause in production of our 4Sight-based Industrial product in the first quarter to complete final design validation of the product. Development Contracts Development contracts revenue decreased by $236, or 32%, to $511 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $747 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to less revenue recognized in the current year from a large Tier 1 automotive supplier contract as the design validation phase nears completion. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $779, or 53%, to $2,261 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $1,482 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to the cost of revenue associated with a Tier 1 automotive supplier contract in the current period and as well as increased scrap expense. 23 Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $866, or 10%, to $9,442 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $8,576 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily driven by increases in stock-based compensation expense of $1,055 and personnel costs of $557, offset by decreases in third party research and development work of $822. Sales and Marketing Total sales and marketing expenses increased by $1,652, or 36%, to $6,268 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $4,616 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to increases in third party conferences and trade shows of $950, stock-based compensation expense of $461, and personnel costs of $237. General and Administrative Total general and administrative expenses decreased by $2,776, or 25%, to $8,554 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $11,330 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in professional accounting and legal fees of $1,098, personnel costs of $579, directors' and officers' insurance of $435, and stock-based compensation of $405. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Note and Warrant Liabilities Change in fair value of convertible note and warrant liabilities increased by $778, or 2,431%, to a loss of $810 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from a loss of $32 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in fair value of the 2022 Note in the current period. Interest Income and Other Interest income and other decreased by $147, or 35%, to $277 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $424 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to less interest earned on our marketable securities in the current period. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other decreased by $519, or 151%, to a gain of $176 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from a loss of $343 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to a favorable increase in accretion of discounts on marketable securities, resulting in a net decrease within Amortization of premiums (accretion of discounts) on marketable securities, net, of $524. Provision for Income Tax Expense Provision for income tax expenses increased to $19 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $8 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is due to changes in pretax income (loss) in the U.S. and certain foreign entities and changes in tax rates. Net Loss Net loss increased by $1,384, or 6%, to $26,265 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $24,881 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase in cost of revenue and operating expenses. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not exclusively, sales volume and timing of revenue, the timing of an OEM design win, our ability to extend our cash runway based on the restructuring initiatives announced in the first quarter of 2023, the timing and extent of spending to support R&D efforts, and market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of March 31, 2023, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $74.1 million. To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been proceeds received from the issuance of equity. In December 2021, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement, or CSPA, with Tumim Stone Capital LLC, or Tumim Stone, pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to issue and sell to Tumim Stone, over a 36-month period, up to $125,000 of the Companys common stock. On May 6, 2022, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1, which related to the offer and resale of up to 30,865,419 shares of our common stock to be purchased by Tumim Stone, pursuant to the CSPA. As of March 31, 2023, 1,145,000 shares were issued under this CSPA. In September 2022, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement ("SPA") with an investor allowing for the sale and issuance of two convertible notes, each with cash proceeds of $9,850, for a total of $20,000 in proceeds between the two issuances (each, a "Note Closing"). On September 15, 2022, we closed the first Note Closing with the investor and received cash proceeds of $9,850 (net of fees paid to the investor). The second Note Closing may occur, at our option, after the ninetieth (90th) calendar day after the first Note Closing and provided that we meet certain equity conditions. Until we can generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products to cover operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised in the business combination with CF Finance Acquisition Corp. III and PIPE financing, as well as any future funds from the CSPA and SPA, and other potential sources of capital, to fund our near-term cash needs. If we are required to raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution of stockholders will result. Any debt securities issued may also have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. We may also be unable to raise additional capital through the sale of securities and debt financing, or to do so on terms that are favorable to us, particularly given current capital market and overall macroeconomic conditions. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had a net loss of $26,265 and $24,881, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for at least the next several years. Despite the recent restructuring initiatives, we expect that our research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses will continue to exceed our operating income and, as a result, we may need additional capital resources to fund our operations. We believe that the net proceeds from the business combination with CF Finance Acquisition Corp. III, PIPE financing, CSPA, and SPA, together with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, will enable us to fund our operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from May 11, 2023. If our cash needs are greater than we anticipate, we may be required to reduce our operating expenses even further or raise additional capital sooner. Reducing our operating expenses could be very challenging for us, since we have already undertaken significant operating expense reductions; further reductions could adversely impact our business operations. Our plans for the use of cash in the long-term (beyond the twelve months indicated above) are similarly related to funding operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements as we continue to scale the business. For additional information regarding our cash requirements from lease obligations, convertible note obligations, and contractual obligations, see Notes 5, 6, and 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, was appointed as receiver. We had and continue to have deposit accounts at SVB. The standard deposit insurance amount is up to $250 thousand per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category. We do not maintain any other material accounts or lines of credit with SVB. On March 13, 2023, we regained access to all of our money held at SVB. We continue to maintain an operating account at SVB, but have subsequently established operating accounts at other financial institutions as well to mitigate the risks associated with any one financial institution's potential insolvency or receivership. 25 Cash Flow Summary Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (17,195) $ (16,023) Investing activities $ 21,477 $ 14,726 Financing activities $ (2,845) $ (1,709) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $17,195. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were a net loss of $26,265, offset by stock-based compensation of $6,513, change in fair value of convertible note and warrant liabilities of $810, noncash lease expense of $350, depreciation and amortization of $330, and inventory write-downs of $208. Within operating activities, the net change in operating assets and liabilities was cash provided of $879, primarily driven by decreases in prepaid and other current assets and accounts receivable of $2,722 and $494, respectively. Cash provided was partially offset by cash used by decreases in accounts payable, contract liabilities, and operating lease liabilities of $985, $511, and $392, respectively, and increases in inventories of $386. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $16,023. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were a net loss of $24,881, offset by stock-based compensation of $5,340, depreciation and amortization of $208, inventory write-downs of $267, and amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on marketable securities, net of changes in accrued interest of $594. Within operating activities, the net changes in operating assets and liabilities were cash used of $2,100, primarily driven by an increase in inventories of $436, and decreases in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $645, accounts payable of $567, and contract liabilities of $767, offset by decreases in prepaids and other current assets of $510 and accounts receivable of $3,930. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $21,477. The primary factor affecting net cash provided by investing activities during this period were the proceeds from redemptions and maturities of marketable securities of $22,000, offset by purchases of property and equipment of $599. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $14,726. The primary factor affecting net cash used in investing activities during this period was the proceeds from redemptions and maturities of marketable securities of $15,500. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $2,845. The primary factors affecting our financing cash flows during this period were payments for convertible note redemptions of $2,300 and payments for taxes related to net settlement of equity awards of $868, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $323. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $1,709. The primary factor affecting our financing cash flows during this period was payments for taxes related to the net settlement of equity awards of $1,931, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $222. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods, fair value measures, and the related disclosures in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions, and 26 conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe our critical accounting policies involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those previously disclosed in "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and we have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. Following the closing of the business combination with CF Finance Acquisition Corp. III,, we will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which the Company has total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which the Company has issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period, or (iv) December 31, 2025. We expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to adopt such new or revised accounting standards early to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.