Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to CF Finance Acquisition Corp. III. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in Delaware on March 15, 2016 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Initial Business Combination). Our sponsor is CF Finance Holdings III, LLC (the Sponsor). Although we are not limited in our search for target businesses to a particular industry or sector for the purpose of consummating the Initial Business Combination, we are focusing our search on companies operating in the financial services, healthcare, real estate services, technology and software industries. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on November 12, 2020. On November 17, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 23,000,000 units (each, a Unit and with respect to the shares of Class A common stock included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), including 3,000,000 Units sold upon the exercise of the underwriters overallotment option in full, at a purchase price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $230,000,000. Each Unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-third of one redeemable warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50. Each warrant will become exercisable on the later of 30 days after the completion of the Initial Business Combination and 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering (or November 17, 2021) and will expire 5 years after the completion of the Initial Business Combination, or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 500,000 Units (the Private Placement Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit to the Sponsor in a private placement (the Private Placement), generating gross proceeds of $5,000,000. 20 Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering and sale of Private Placement Units on November 17, 2020, an amount of $230,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Units was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account) located in the United States at UMB, N.A., with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company (Continental) acting as trustee, which may be invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by us meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of the Initial Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account, as described below. We have until September 17, 2021 or prior to the expiration of the applicable four-month extension period, as described below, to consummate the Initial Business Combination (or a later date approved by the Companys stockholders in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Combination Period). If we are unable to complete the Initial Business Combination by the end of the Combination Period, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish our public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete the Initial Business Combination within the Combination Period. On April 30, 2021, the Sponsor funded the amount needed to extend the Companys time to consummate its initial business combination from May 17, 2021 to September 17, 2021, the proceeds of which were deposited into the Trust Account. In connection therewith, the Company issued the Sponsor a promissory note in the amount of $2,300,000. As a result of the foregoing extension, the balance of the Trust Account increased to $10.10 per Public Shares. The Sponsor agreed to fund the amount needed to further extend the Companys time to consummate its initial business combination to January 17, 2022, if necessary . If we anticipate that we may not be able to consummate the Initial Business Combination by September 17, 2021, and subject to the Sponsor depositing additional funds into the Trust Account as set out below, the time to consummate the Initial Business Combination shall be extended for an additional four months up to three additional times, for a total of up to 22 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering to complete the Initial Business Combination. The stockholders will not be entitled to vote or redeem their shares in connection with any such extension. Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Trust Agreement entered into between us and Continental, in order for the time available for us to consummate the Initial Business Combination to be extended, the Sponsor or its affiliates or permitted designees, upon five business days advance notice prior to the applicable deadline, must deposit into the Trust Account $2,300,000 ($0.10 per Public Share), on or prior to the date of the applicable deadline, for each of the available four month extensions providing a total possible business Combination Period of 22 months at a total payment value of $9,200,000 ($0.10 per Public Share), including the $2,300,000 deposited by the Sponsor on April 30, 2021. Any such payments would be made by the Sponsor pursuant to a non-interest bearing loan issued by us which would be due and payable on the consummation of the Business Combination out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. If we do not complete the Initial Business Combination, we may repay such loans solely from assets not held in the Trust Account, if any. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had $31,491 and $1,250, respectively, of cash in our operating bank account and working capital deficit of approximately $614,000 and $46,000, respectively. As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any interest income in the Trust Account available to pay franchise and income taxes, as during the three months ended March 31, 2021, $6,491 of the interest income from the Trust Account was used to pay taxes. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $800 of interest income in the Trust Account available to pay franchise and income taxes. Our liquidity needs through March 31, 2021 have been satisfied through a contribution of $25,000 from the Sponsor in exchange for the issuance of the founder shares, a loan of approximately $140,000 from the Sponsor pursuant to a promissory note (the Pre-IPO Note), the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement with the Sponsor not held in the Trust Account, and the Sponsor Loan (as defined below). We fully repaid the Pre-IPO Note upon completion of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with the Initial Business Combination, our Sponsor has committed up to $1,750,000 to be provided to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements after the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Initial Business Combination (the Sponsor Loan). If the Sponsor Loan is insufficient, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us additional loans. As of March 31, 2021and December 31, 2020, there was approximately $733,000 and $428,000, respectively, outstanding under the Sponsor Loan. Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from the Sponsor to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of the Initial Business Combination or one year from the date of this Report. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective target businesses, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Initial Business Combination. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception through March 31, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, toward locating and completing a suitable Initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of the Initial Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on investments held in the Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net income of approximately $338,000, which consisted of approximately $1,000,000 of gain from the change in fair value of warrants liability and approximately $6,000 of interest income on investments held in the Trust Account, which was offset by approximately $574,000 in general and administrative expenses, $30,000 in administrative expenses paid to the Sponsor and approximately $81,000 of franchise tax expense. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had a net income of $0. Proposed Business Combination On February 17, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Original Merger Agreement) with Meliora Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub), and AEye, Inc., a Delaware corporation (AEye). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, upon the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby (the Closing), Merger Sub will merge with and into AEye (the Merger and together with the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Transactions), whereby the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub will cease and AEye will be the surviving corporation of the Merger and become our wholly owned subsidiary. At the Closing, we will amend our charter to, among other matters, change our name to AEye Holdings, Inc. On April 30, 2021, the Company entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement with Merger Sub and AEye (the Merger Agreement Amendment and, together with the Original Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement). For more information about the business combination with AEye, see the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-4 initially filed with the SEC on May 13, 2021 and as amended from time to time and the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 17, 2021 and May 3, 2021. 22 Contemporaneously with the execution of the Original Merger Agreement, we entered into separate Subscription Agreements (the Subscription Agreements) with a number of subscribers (each a Subscriber), including the Sponsor, pursuant to which the Subscribers agreed to purchase, and we agreed to sell to the Subscribers, at the Closing, an aggregate of 22.5 million shares of Class A common stock, for a purchase price of $10.00 per share and an aggregate purchase price of $225 million (the PIPE Investments), with the Sponsors Subscription Agreement accounting for $9.5 million of such aggregate PIPE Investments (of which the Sponsor has assigned $4.5 million of its subscription to an unrelated third-party). Contractual Obligations Business Combination Marketing Agreement We engaged Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. (CF&Co.), an affiliate of the Sponsor, as an advisor in connection with the Initial Business Combination to assist us in holding meetings with our stockholders to discuss the Initial Business Combination and the target business attributes, introduce us to potential investors that are interested in purchasing the Companys securities, assist us in obtaining stockholder approval for the Initial Business Combination and assist us with our press releases and public filings in connection with the Initial Business Combination. We will pay CF&Co. a cash fee for such services upon the consummation of the Initial Business Combination in an amount of $8,650,000, which is equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the base offering in the Initial Public Offering, and 5.5% of the gross proceeds from the full exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option. Related Party Loans In order to finance transaction costs in connection with an intended Initial Business Combination, the Sponsor has committed up to $1,750,000 in the Sponsor Loan to be provided to us to fund expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, including $10,000 per month for office space, administrative and shared personnel support services that will be paid to the Sponsor, after the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Initial Business Combination. As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had borrowed approximately $733,000 and $428,000, respectively, under the Sponsor Loan. The Sponsor pays expenses on our behalf. We reimburse the Sponsor for such expenses paid on our behalf. As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had accounts payable outstanding to the Sponsor for such expenses paid on our behalf of approximately $10,000 and $4,300, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting polices: Use of Estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. 23 Emerging Growth Company Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. Warrant Liability We account for our outstanding public warrants and private placement warrants in accordance with ASC 815-40, under which the warrants do not meet the criteria for equity classification and must be recorded as liabilities. As both the public and private placement warrants meet the definition of a derivative under ASC 815, they are measured at fair value at inception and at each reporting date in accordance with the guidance in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement (ASC 820), with any subsequent changes in fair value recognized in the statement of operations in the period of change. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Shares of conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, shares of Class A common stock are classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 21,359,584 and 21,325,774 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet, respectively. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. Net income per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the concurrent Private Placement to purchase an aggregate of 7,833,332 shares of Class A common stock in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted earnings per common share is the same as basic earnings per common share for the period. Our statement of operations includes a presentation of income per share for common stock subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income per share. Net income per share, basic and diluted for shares of Class A common stock are calculated by dividing the interest income (loss) earned on cash equivalents and investments and held in the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes available to be withdrawn from the Trust Account, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A common stock outstanding for the applicable period, excluding 500,000 shares of Class A common stock held by the Sponsor, which is not subject to redemption. Net loss per share, basic and diluted for shares of Class B common stock is calculated by dividing the net income, less income attributable to the shares of redeemable Class A common stock by the weighted average number of shares of Class B common stock and 500,000 shares of Class A common stock held by the Sponsor outstanding for the applicable period. 24 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our management does not believe there are any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, that would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.