Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and projections about our industry, business, and future financial results. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those described in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed below and those set forth under Risk Factors herein and other filings we make with the SEC from time to time. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we,our,us, and AEye, refer to the business and operations of AEye, Inc. Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important to understanding our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. All dollar amounts expressed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are in thousands of dollars, except for per share amounts and unless otherwise specified. Key Factors Affecting Our Operating Results We believe that our future performance and success depends, to a substantial extent, on our ability to capitalize on the opportunities described herein, which in turn are subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below and the risk factors described in the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We are subject to those risks common in the technology industry and also those risks common to early stage companies including, but not limited to: the possibility of not being able to successfully develop or commercialize our products; securing additional capital in a timely manner in order to meet operating cash flow needs; doing so on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, which may be challenging given the current capital markets and overall macroeconomic conditions; maintain and establish relationships with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers to facilitate design wins with potential end customers, which in our case are automotive OEMs; develop and protect our intellectual property; changing international trade policies, including the imposition or modification of tariffs, increasing trade tensions, and the implementation of potential trade restrictions; comply with existing and new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; and successfully develop new solutions to enhance the experience of, and deliver value to, our customers. 21 Table of Contents Market Trends and Uncertainties We anticipate growing demand for our 4SightTM Intelligent Sensing Platform across our two major markets, Automotive and Non-Automotive. We believe this expected growth will enable us to capture market share across both the Automotive and Non-Automotive markets. We plan to pursue opportunities in advanced driver-assistance systems, or ADAS, autonomous driving, and commercial trucking, while also exploring opportunities in the Non-Automotive market, such as in the railway, security, and intelligent transportation systems, or ITS segments. This diversified approach provides us with multiple opportunities for sustained growth by enabling new applications and product features across a broad range of industries and market segments. However, as our customers continue their R&D projects to commercialize solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market demand and customer adoption. In the Automotive market for example, our growth and financial performance will be heavily influenced by our ability to successfully integrate into OEM programs that require years of development, testing, and validation. Because of the size and complexity of these OEM programs, having Tier 1 partnerships should provide a substantial competitive advantage over our competitors given their large scale, mass-production capabilities, and existing OEM relationships held by our Tier 1 partners. If we fail to remain engaged with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers, it may have an adverse effect on our business. The markets for lidar are projected to see significant growth in both the near and long-term. As is common in early-stage companies with limited operating histories, we are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Since inception, we have incurred net losses and negative cash flows from operations and expect to continue incurring losses up to commercialization which means we are dependent upon raising additional capital to provide the cash necessary to continue our ongoing operations. As a result, it remains critical for us to preserve cash and manage spending to extend our liquidity. We also plan to improve our liquidity position through securing additional financing, engaging with partners and OEMs, and executing on our critical milestones. However, successfully raising capital is outside of our control and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, on a timely basis, or at all. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we raised $11,055 in gross proceeds through share issuances on our stock purchase agreements and a convertible note. We also have access to additional liquidity through our equity line of credit and ATM facilities. Partnerships and Commercialization Our technology is designed to be a key enabler in certain Automotive and Non-Automotive market applications. Because our technology must be integrated into a broader solution by our customers, it is critical that we achieve design wins with these customers. The time to achieve a design win varies based on the market and application. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although the revenue that may be generated by each design win and the time necessary to achieve such a design win can vary significantly, making it difficult to predict our financial performance. In large part, we plan to unify our supply chain for the Automotive and Non-Automotive markets and leverage our Tier 1 automotive suppliers to produce products for our resale in our Non-Automotive markets, whereas in the Automotive markets, we anticipate licensing our technology to our Tier 1 suppliers in exchange for a royalty. The unified supply chain should allow us to leverage the scale, efficiencies, and volume associated with supplying the Automotive market to benefit our Non-Automotive market customers. During 2023, as part of our effort to reduce fixed operating costs, focus operations, simplify supply chains, and streamline manufacturing, we wound down support for our legacy Non-Automotive product. Since the launch of our new product, Apollo, in 2024, we have seen renewed interest from Non-Automotive customers across a broad range of sectors and are actively engaged on multiple opportunities. In early 2024, we engaged LITEON as our Tier 1 automotive supplier and are actively working with them to bring our product to market. We recently announced the successful production of the first Apollo units by LITEON, which we believe demonstrates an ability to produce units at scale. This partnership has enabled us to leverage LITEONs manufacturing expertise to produce high-quality samples that meet stringent performance standards, which is a critical step towards scaling production and delivering our advanced lidar solutions to the market. In May 2024, we announced a strategic partnership with ATI and LighTekton Co., Ltd to manufacture and distribute our products in China. This collaboration provides us with access to a potential $2.5 billion market opportunity. By leveraging ATI's and LighTekton's extensive networks and manufacturing capabilities, we aim to accelerate our market penetration and deliver our advanced lidar solutions to a broader audience. We have also made substantial progress in our collaboration efforts with Nvidia, demonstrating significant advances in the high-speed and long-range detection performance of our lidar systems, which we believe puts us on track for future integration with their Hyperion platform, with Apollo having entered Nvidias independent testing phase. Given these engagements are relatively recent, there is no guarantee that these endeavors will be successful. We believe our revenue and profitability will also be dependent upon our success in licensing our technology to Tier 1 automotive suppliers, such as our current Tier 1 partner, LITEON, and these partners securing program awards from OEMS and scaling to high volume production of our lidar sensors. Delays in autonomy programs by OEMs that we are currently or plan to be working with through our Tier 1 partners could result in us being unable to achieve our revenue and profitability targets in the time frame we anticipate, or at all. 22 Table of Contents Gross Margin Our gross margins will depend on numerous factors, including, among others, the selling price of our products, pricing of our development contracts with customers, royalty rates on licenses we grant to our customers, unit volumes, product mix, component costs, personnel costs, contract manufacturing costs, overhead costs, and product features. Our gross margins have in the past, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by inventory write-downs. In the future, we expect to generate attractive gross margins from licensing our lidar technology and software to our Tier 1 partners in the Automotive market. We also anticipate being able to leverage on our foundation in the Automotive market to move to other markets. To date, our revenue has primarily been generated through development contracts with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, as well as unit sales of our products to Non-Automotive market customers. These development contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4SightTM product capabilities to our customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of particular perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. In general, development contracts that require more complex configurations have higher prices. We expect development contracts to remain a significant part of our business in the near term, but represent a smaller share of our total revenue over time as we increase our focus on technology licensing in the Automotive market and leverage these economies of scale to expand into the Non-Automotive market. Investment and Innovation Our proprietary adaptive intelligent lidar technology delivers industry-leading performance, addressing the toughest challenges in achieving partial or full autonomy. Unlike traditional sensing systems that passively collect data, our active 4SightTM Intelligent Sensing Platform employs principles from automated targeting systems and biomimicry to actively scan the environment, intelligently focusing on critical elements to enable safer, smarter, and faster decisions in complex scenarios. In June 2024, we introduced Apollo, the first product in our 4Sight Flex family of next-generation lidar sensors. Apollo offers best-in-class range and resolution in a compact, power-efficient, and cost-effective form factor, making it ideal for both automotive and non-automotive applications. Apollo can be integrated behind the windshield, on the roof, or in the grille, allowing OEMs to implement essential safety features with minimal impact on vehicle design. This innovative sensor leverages our 4Sight Intelligent Sensing Platform, providing a highly programmable and customizable lidar solution that can be continually enhanced via software updates. With a horizontal field of view up to 120 and long-range detection capabilities of up to 1 km, Apollo is poised to be a key player in advancing vehicle safety and autonomy, as well as smart infrastructure and logistics applications. We believe our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain a technology leadership position. This is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development and our ability to commercialize our products. We believe price is becoming a critical differentiator in the marketplace and OEMs are favoring companies that have the infrastructure to build lower cost products at higher volumes. It is essential that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, develop and introduce innovative new products, enhance and service existing products, lower bill of materials, or BOM, costs, industrialize the manufacturing process, and generate strong market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Basis of Presentation We currently conduct our business through one operating segment. Components of Results of Operations Total Revenues Our prototype sales revenue primarily related to unit sales of our 4SightTM product. Revenue from prototype sales is typically recognized at a point in time when the control of goods is transferred to the customer, generally upon delivery or shipment to the customer. Revenue from development and/or collaboration arrangement contracts are earned from R&D activities and collaboration with OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers. These contracts primarily focus on customization of our proprietary 4SightTM capabilities to our customers applications, typically involving software implementation to assist with sensor connection and control, customization of scan patterns, and enhancement of perception capabilities to meet specific customer needs. Revenue from development contracts is recognized when we satisfy performance obligations in the contract, which can result in recognition at either a point in time or over time. This assessment is made at the outset of the arrangement for each performance obligation. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes the costs directly associated with the production of prototypes and certain costs associated with development contracts. Such costs for prototypes include direct materials, direct labor, indirect labor, inventory write downs, losses on purchase commitments, warranty expense, and allocation of overhead. Costs associated with development contracts include the direct costs and allocation of overhead costs involved in the execution of the contracts. 23 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Our research and development, or R&D, efforts are focused primarily on hardware, software, and system engineering related to the design and development of our advanced lidar solutions. R&D expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, one-time termination benefits, and stock-based compensation expense; third-party engineering and contractor costs; lab equipment; engineering parts and test units; new hardware and software expenses; and allocated personnel and overhead expenses. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. We expect our R&D costs to increase slightly from 2024 as we continue to invest in the development of our Apollo product. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing, or S&M, efforts are focused primarily on sales, business development, and marketing programs in pursuit of revenue contracts from potential and existing customers. S&M expenses include: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, one-time termination benefits, and stock-based compensation expense; demonstration equipment; trade shows expenses, advertising, and promotions expenses for press releases and other public relations services; and allocated personnel and overhead expenses. We expect our S&M expenses to increase as we pursue Non-Automotive opportunities to accelerate profitability while continuing to leverage our Tier 1 partners to commercialize our products and manage relationships with the OEMs in the Automotive market. General and Administrative Our general and administrative, or G&A, spending supports all business functions. G&A expenses include: personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, one-time termination benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for executive, finance, legal, operations, human resources, technical support, and other administrative personnel; consulting, accounting, audit, legal, and other professional fees; insurance premiums, software and computer equipment costs, general office expenses; and allocated overhead expenses. We expect our G&A expenses to decrease slightly with reduced facility costs and professional fees, while continuing to incur expenses to support other departments as we continue to develop and commercialize our Apollo product. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Note and Warrant Liabilities The changes in fair value of the 2025 Note and warrant liabilities are the result of the change in fair value at each reporting date. The 2025 Note and warrant liabilities are recorded at fair value for each reporting period, and the changes in fair value are reported within other income (expense), net during the period. We also elected to record interest expense on the 2025 Note as changes in fair value. 24 Table of Contents Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Interest income and other consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest income and other also includes gains on sale of property and equipment. Interest expense and other consists primarily of financing costs, and amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on marketable securities, net. Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this report. The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands, except for percentages): Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2025 2024 $ % Revenue $ 64 $ 20 $ 44 220 % Cost of revenue 96 263 (167 ) (63 )% Gross loss (32 ) (243 ) 211 (87 )% Research and development 3,490 4,532 (1,042 ) (23 )% Sales and marketing 383 341 42 12 % General and administrative 2,895 5,615 (2,720 ) (48 )% Total operating expenses 6,768 10,488 (3,720 ) (35 )% Loss from operations (6,800 ) (10,731 ) 3,931 (37 )% Change in fair value of convertible note and warrant liabilities 680 2 678 33900 % Interest income and other 214 195 19 10 % Interest expense and other (2,108 ) 317 (2,425 ) (765 )% Total other income (expense), net (1,214 ) 514 (1,728 ) (336 )% Loss before income tax expense (8,014 ) (10,217 ) 2,203 (22 )% Provision for income tax expense 2 2 % Net loss $ (8,016 ) $ (10,219 ) $ 2,203 (22 )% Revenue Revenues increased by $44, or 220%, to $64 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $20 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase is primarily due to contract development revenues, partially offset by lower prototype unit sales in the current quarter. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $167, or 63%, to $96 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $263 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily due to fewer units sold in the current quarter to Non-Automotive customers. The decrease was also due to inventory write-downs and losses on purchase commitments recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2024, which was primarily associated with transitioning to certain higher-grade components in our products for the Automotive market as a result of our revised strategic plan. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses decreased by $1,042, or 23%, to $3,490 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $4,532 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily driven by decreases in personnel costs of $323, stock-based compensation expense of $477, and information technology and facilities expense of $463. The decrease was offset by a $350 increase in fees paid to third parties for development work. 25 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $42, or 12%, to $383 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $341 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was primarily driven by increases in allocated personnel costs of $294 as we pursue Non-Automotive opportunities. The increase is partially offset by decreases in stock-based compensation of $181 and facilities and information technology allocations of $90. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses decreased by $2,720, or 48%, to $2,895 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $5,615 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily driven by a favorable adjustment of $1,685 upon settlement of a lease dispute, decreases in personnel cost of $803 and insurance of $106. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation of $146. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Note and Warrant Liabilities Change in fair value of convertible note and warrant liabilities increased by $678 to a gain of $680 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from a gain of $2 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was primarily due to the change in fair value of the the 2025 Note and related warrants in January 2025. Interest Income and Other Interest income and other increased by $19, or 10%, to $214 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $195 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was primarily due to higher interest earned on our cash equivalents and marketable securities in the current period. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased by $2,425, or 765%, to a net expense of $2,108 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from a net income of $317 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was primarily due to an increase in costs related to financing arrangements of $2,095 and a decrease in amortization of premiums on marketable securities, net, of $180. Provision for Income Tax Expense Provision for income tax expenses remained constant at $2 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. Net Loss Net loss decreased by $2,203, or 22%, to $8,016 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $10,219 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in personnel and facilities expenses, partially offset by increased investments in the development of Apollo. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not exclusively, sales volume and timing of revenue, our efforts to establish and maintain a relationship with one or more Tier 1 automotive suppliers and the timing of any OEM design wins, our ability to extend our cash runway based on the restructuring initiatives announced in prior years, the timing and extent of spending to support R&D efforts, how quickly we can commercialize our products, and the market adoption of new and enhanced products and features. As of March 31, 2025, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $25,926. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we had a net loss of $8,016 and $10,219, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for at least the next several years. Our principal sources of liquidity have been proceeds received from the issuance of equity. Tumim Stone Transaction In December 2021, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Tumim Stone Capital LLC, or Tumim Stone, pursuant to which we had the right, but not the obligation, to issue and sell to Tumim Stone over a 36-month period, up to $125,000 of our common stock. On May 6, 2022, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1, which related to the offer and resale of up to 1,028,847 shares of our common stock to be purchased by Tumim Stone, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. On July 24, 2024, this Purchase Agreement was terminated in conjunction with us entering into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with New Circle. In total, 996,866 shares were issued under the Tumim Stone Purchase Agreement for gross proceeds totaling $5,516. 26 Table of Contents 2022 Convertible Note In September 2022, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, with an investor allowing for the sale and issuance of up to two convertible notes, each with cash proceeds of $10,000, for a total of $20,000 in proceeds between the two issuances (each, a "Note Closing"). On September 15, 2022, we closed the first Note Closing with the investor and received cash proceeds of $9,850 (net of fees paid to the investor). On March 15, 2024, our right to effect a Second Closing under the Securities Purchase Agreement terminated. Shelf Registration On September 26, 2023, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission declared our registration statement on Form S-3 to be effective, which allows us to raise up to $200,000 in capital over the next three years subject to a limitation of one-third of our public float over a rolling twelve-month period, when our public float is below $75 million (which it is as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is filed), which is referred to as the baby shelf" rules. Dowslake Transaction On May 10, 2024, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Dowslake Microsystems Corporation, or Dowslake, pursuant to which Dowslake agreed to purchase 330,823 shares of common stock for a purchase price of $854, which represents a per share purchase price of $2.58, and an unsecured promissory note in the principal amount of $146 for an aggregate purchase price of $1,000. Registered Direct Offering On May 29, 2024, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with certain institutional investors pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell, in a registered direct offering, an aggregate of 727,706 shares of common stock at a per share purchase price of $3.448 for gross proceeds of approximately $2,509, before deducting estimated offering expenses payable by us. New Circle Transaction On July 25, 2024, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with New Circle Principal Investments LLC, or New Circle, pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell to New Circle, and New Circle is obligated to purchase, up to $50,000 of our common stock. Such sales of common stock by us, if any, and may occur from time to time at our sole discretion, over a 36-month period. As of March 31, 2025, we have issued 3,255,150 shares of our common stock to New Circle under the CSPA for gross proceeds totaling $6,480. A.G.P. Transaction On September 12, 2024, we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement with Alliance Global Partners, or A.G.P., pursuant to which we may issue and sell through A.G.P., up to $15,292 of our common stock from time to time through an "at-the-market" equity offering program. Such sales of common stock by us, if any, may occur from time to time at our sole discretion, over a 36-month period. As of March 31, 2025, we have sold 5,887,640 shares under the ATM Agreement for gross proceeds totaling $8,244. 2025 Convertible Note In January 2025, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement to finance an aggregate principal amount of up to $3,240 with a certain institutional investor and issued (i) a senior unsecured convertible promissory note (the "2025 Note") for an aggregate purchase price of $3,000 and (ii) a warrant to purchase up to 805,263 shares of the Companys common stock. The 2025 Note, subject to an original issue discount of 7.4%, has a term of eighteen months and accrues interest at the rate of 7.0% per annum. The 2025 Note is convertible into Common Stock, at a per share conversion price equal to $2.22, subject to adjustments noted in the Note. The Warrant has an initial exercise price of $2.22, and is exercisable after the six month and one day anniversary of its issuance (the Initial Exercisability Date) until for four years following the Initial Exercisability Date. Until we are able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products to cover operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised in the transactions described earlier, and other potential sources of capital, to fund our near-term cash needs. If we are required to raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution of stockholders will result. Any debt securities issued may also have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. We may also be unable to raise additional capital through the sale of securities and debt financing, or to do so on terms that are favorable to us, particularly given current capital market and overall macroeconomic conditions. 27 Table of Contents Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Subtopic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern, requires us to assess our ability to meet our future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. We expect that our expenses will continue to exceed our operating income and, as a result, we may need additional capital resources to fund our operations. We believe that our potential liquidity and the implementation of our plans should we be unable to secure additional financing will sufficiently alleviate the risk of substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and will enable us to fund our operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For additional discussion of our plans, see Note 1 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If our cash needs are greater than we anticipate, we may be required to reduce our operating expenses further or raise additional capital sooner. Given the current macroeconomic environment, OEMs appear to be more cautious about their capital spending and investments into new technologies and as a result we have seen the timelines for certain opportunities delayed, which may negatively impact the time for us to reach positive cash flows from operations. Our plans for the use of cash in the long term (beyond twelve months from this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) are primarily related to funding operating expenses to support the commercialization of our products. For additional information regarding our cash requirements from lease obligations, lease termination liability and contractual obligations, see Notes 5 and 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cash Flow Summary Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (7,803 ) $ (7,885 ) Investing activities $ (8,578 ) $ 368 Financing activities $ 11,382 $ 120 Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in operating activities was $7,803. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were net loss of $8,016, a gain on termination of an operating lease of $1,685, and change in fair value of convertible notes and warrant liabilities of $680, partially offset by stock-based compensation of $2,501, debt issuance costs of $1,984, and common stock purchase agreement costs of $111. Within operating activities, the net changes in operating assets and liabilities were cash used of $2,056, primarily driven by decreases in accrued expenses and other liabilities and operating lease liabilities of $2,408 and $57, respectively. Cash used was offset by cash provided by decreases in prepaid and other current assets and other noncurrent assets of $98 and $80, respectively, and an increase in accounts payable of $222. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $7,885. Factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were a net loss of $10,219, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on marketable securities, net of $252, offset by stock-based compensation of $3,014, and noncash lease expense of $364. Within operating activities, the net changes in operating assets and liabilities were cash used of $852, primarily driven by decreases in accrued expenses and other liabilities, operating lease liabilities, and other noncurrent liabilities of $1,343, $397, and $358, respectively. Cash used was offset by cash provided by a decrease in prepaid and other current assets of $772 and an increase in accounts payable of $309. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities was $8,578. The primary factors affecting net cash used in investing activities during this period were the purchases of marketable securities of $14,303, partially offset by redemptions and maturities of marketable securities of $5,731. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $368. The primary factors affecting net cash provided by investing activities during this period were the proceeds from redemptions and maturities of marketable securities of $6,500, partially offset by the purchases of marketable securities of $6,045 and purchases of property and equipment of $87. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by financing activities was $11,382. The primary factors affecting our financing cash flows during this period were proceeds from common stock purchase agreements of $9,495 and from the issuance of a convertible note of $2,950, partially offset by debt issuance costs of $578, taxes paid on net settlement of equity awards of $333 and stock issuance costs related to common stock purchase agreements of $152. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $120. The primary factors affecting our financing cash flows during this period were proceeds from the exercise of the CSPA of $165, partially offset by payments for taxes related to net settlement of equity awards of $45. 28 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are in accordance with GAAP. We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods, fair value measures, and the related disclosures in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Our actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe our critical accounting policies involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those previously disclosed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and we have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period, or (iv) December 31, 2025. We expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to adopt such new or revised accounting standards early to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.