ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not materially affected by inflation. Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle, Company, We, Our, Us), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. AgEagles shift and expansion from solely manufacturing fixed-wing farm drones in 2018, to offering what we believe is one of the industrys best fixed-wing, full-stack drone solutions, culminated in 2021 when we acquired three market-leading companies engaged in producing UAS airframes, sensors and software for commercial and government use. In addition to a robust portfolio of proprietary, connected hardware and software products; an established global network of over 200 UAS resellers; and enterprise customers worldwide; these acquisitions also brought AgEagle a highly valuable workforce comprised largely of experienced engineers and technologists with deep expertise in the fields of robotics, automation, manufacturing and data science. In 2022, we succeeded in integrating all three acquired companies with AgEagle to form one global company focused on taking autonomous flight performance to a higher level. AgEagle has also achieved numerous regulatory firsts, earning governmental approvals for its commercial and tactical drones to fly Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) and/or Operations Over People (OOP) in the United States, Canada, Brazil and the European Union. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience and is currently headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, where we house our business and sensor manufacturing operations; and we operate drone manufacturing operations in Lausanne, Switzerland in support of our international business activities. We intend to grow our business and preserve our leadership position by developing new drones, sensors and software and capturing a significant share of the global drone market. In addition, we expect to accelerate our growth and expansion through strategic acquisitions of companies offering distinct technological and competitive advantages and have defensible IP protection in place, if applicable. Key Growth Strategies We intend to materially grow our business by leveraging our proprietary, best-in-class, full-stack drone solutions, industry influence and deep pool of talent with specialized expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science to achieve greater penetration of the global UAS industry with near-term emphasis on capturing larger market share of the agriculture, energy/utilities, infrastructure and government/military verticals. We expect to accomplish this goal by first bringing three core values to life in our day-to-day operations and aligning them with our efforts to earn the trust and continued business of our customers and industry partners: Curiosity this pushes us to find value where others arent looking. It inspires us to see around corners for our customers, understanding the problems they currently face or will be facing in the future, and delivering them solutions best suited for their unique needs. Passion this fuels our obsession with excellence, our desire to try the difficult things and tackle big problems, and our commitment to meet our customers needs and then surpass them. Integrity this is not optional or situational at AgEagle it is the foundation for everything we do, even when no one is watching. 35 Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Establish three centers of excellence with respective expertise in UAS drones, sensors and software. These centers of excellence cross pollinate ideas, industry insights and skillsets to yield intelligent autonomous solutions that fully leverage AgEagles experienced teams specialized knowledge and know-how in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are critical building blocks of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative autonomous robotics systems and solutions that address market needs beyond our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Foster our entrepreneurial culture and continue to attract, develop and retain highly skilled personnel. AgEagles company culture encourages innovation and entrepreneurialism, which helps attract and retain highly skilled professionals. We believe this culture is key to nurture the design and development of the innovative, highly technical system solutions that give us our competitive advantage. Effectively manage our growth portfolio for long-term value creation. Our production and development programs present numerous investment opportunities that we believe will deliver long-term growth by providing our customers with valuable new capabilities. We evaluate each opportunity independently, as well as within the context of other investment opportunities, to determine its relative cost, timing and potential for generation of returns, and thereby its priority. This process helps us make informed decisions regarding potential growth capital requirements and supports our allocation of resources based on relative risks and returns to maximize long-term value creation, which is the key objective of our growth strategy. We also review our portfolio on a regular basis to determine if and when to narrow our focus on the highest potential growth opportunities. Growth through acquisition. Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically advanced UAS companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative autonomous flight systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging markets that can benefit from innovations in artificial intelligence-enabled robotics and data capture and analytics. Competitive Strengths We believe that the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience We believe our decade of experience in commercial UAS design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. In fact, approximately 70% of our global workforce is comprised of engineers and data scientists with deep experience and expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing, and data analytics. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our U.S. and Swiss-based manufacturing operations. As a result, we have earned ISO:9001 international certification for our Quality Management System. AgEagle is more than just customer- and product-centric, we are obsessed with innovation and knowing the needs of our customers before they do We are focused on capitalizing on our specialized expertise in innovating and commercializing advanced drone, sensor and software technologies to provide our existing and future customers with autonomous robotic solutions that meet the highest possible safety and operational standards and fit their specific business needs. We have established three Centers of Excellence that our leadership has challenged to cross-pollinate ideas, industry insights and interdisciplinary skillsets to generate intelligent autonomous solutions that efficiently leverage our expertise in robotics, automation and manufacturing to solve problems for our customers, irrespective of the industry sector in which they may operate. 36 In December 2022, we unveiled our new eBee VISION, a small, fixed-wing UAS designed to provide real-time, enhanced situational awareness for critical intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions; to produce and deliver eBee VISION fixed-wing drones and customized command and control software that proves compatible and is in full compliance with the DoD Robotic and Autonomous System-Air Interoperability Profile (RAS-A IOP). In addition, three branches of European military forces have taken delivery of eBee VISION drones in 2023. In support of its sales and pre-order efforts, AgEagles team has been engaged in numerous live demonstrations and intensive training sessions with officials from government and military agencies across the world seeking to leverage the power of eBee VISION in their respective drone operations. In July 2023 alone, we completed a comprehensive training session with our first European military customers, who were confirmed as eBee VISION operators and qualified trainers of new users. These new customers confirmed with AgEagles technical teams that all operational capabilities of the eBee VISION continue to meet and exceed performance benchmarks in scouting, surveillance, usability, fast deployment and flight time, among other use case criteria specified by the international military community. We have also been working in close collaboration with our network of valued added reselling partners in France, United Kingdom, Poland, Italy and Spain, among other countries, to conduct live demonstrations and technical exchanges with prospective new customers, with emphasis on showcasing use of eBee VISION UAS for public safety and first responder missions, border patrol and a wide range of commercial applications. On September 6, 2023, the Company announced that commercial production of the eBee VISION had commenced and orders for the systems are now being accepted. In May 2023, we released the new RedEdge-P dual high resolution and RGB composite drone sensor, representing yet another AgEagle technological advancement in aerial imaging cameras, seamlessly integrating the power and performance of the RedEdge-P and the new RedEdge-P blue cameras in a single solution. The RedEdge-P dual doubles analytical capabilities with the benefit of a single camera workflow. Its coastal blue band the first of its kind in the market was specifically designed for vegetation analysis of water bodies; environmental monitoring; water management; habitat monitoring, protection and restoration; and vegetation species and weeds identification, including differentiating and counting plants, trees, invasive species and weeds. In April of this year, AgEagle released Field Check for the Measure Ground Control mobile app. Measure Ground Control is a complete Software-as-a-Service solution for drone program management that is available as a web app and mobile app for both iOS and Android devices. The softwares capabilities include mission and equipment management, flight control, data processing and analysis, secure data storage and sharing, online collaboration and reporting. Field Checks unique feature set enables users to review and validate the quality of their drone-captured imagery on-site. Capturing target imagery right the first time in one trip to a project site allows users to eliminate time loss and costs associated with project reworks by ensuring data capture is complete and ready for processing into high-resolution outputs before leaving a site. Reflecting our software development teams superb problem-solving capabilities, Field Check provides our clients with a competitive edge in their drone operations and across the industries they serve by avoiding project repeats and downtime due to data processing errors or poor image quality. We offer market-tested drones, sensors and software solutions that have earned the longstanding trust and fidelity of customers worldwide Through successful execution of our acquisition integration strategy in 2021, AgEagle is now delivering a unified line of industry trusted drones, sensors and software that have been vigorously tested and consistently proven across multiple industry verticals and use cases. For instance, our line of eBee fixed wing drones have flown more than one million flights over the past decade serving customers spanning surveying and mapping; engineering and construction; military/defense; mining, quarries and aggregates; agriculture humanitarian aid and environmental monitoring, to name just a few. Featured in over 100 research publications globally, advanced sensor innovations developed and commercialized by AgEagle have served to forge new industry standards for high performance, high resolution, thermal and multispectral imaging for commercial drone applications in agriculture, plant research, land management and forestry. In addition, we have championed the development of end-to-end software solutions which power autonomous flight and deliver actionable, contextual data and analytics for numerous Fortune 500 companies, government agencies and a wide range of businesses in agriculture, energy and utilities, construction and other industry sectors. AgEagle was awarded a Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) Contract by the U.S. federal governments General Services Administration (GSA) In April 2023, the centralized procurement arm of the federal government, the GSA, awarded us with a five-year MAS contract. The GSA Schedule Contract is a highly coveted award in the government contracting space and is the result of a rigorous proposal process involving the demonstration of products and services in-demand by government agencies, and the negotiation of their prices, qualifications, terms and conditions. Contractors selling through the GSA Contract are carefully vetted and must have a proven track record in the industry. We believe that this will serve to advance our efforts to achieve deeper penetration of the government sector over the next five years. 37 Our eBee TACUAS is available for purchase for all military branches of US We believe that the eBee TAC is ideally positioned to become an in-demand, mission critical tool for the U.S. military, government and civil agencies and our allies worldwide; and expect that this will prove to be a major growth catalyst for us in 2023, positively impacting our financial performance in the years ahead. In addition to being available for purchase under our own GSA Schedule Contract, the eBee TAC is available for purchase by U.S. government agencies and all branches of the military on GSA Schedule Contract #47QTCA18D003G, supplied by Hexagon US Federal as a standalone solution or as part of the Aerial Reconnaissance Tactical Edge Mapping Imagery System (ARTEMIS). Our eBee X series of fixed wing UAS, including the eBee X, eBee Geo and eBee TAC, are the first and only drones on the market to comply with Category 3 of the sUAS Over People rules published by the FAA. It is another important testament of our commitment to providing best-in-class solutions to our commercial customers, and we believe it will serve as a key driver in the growth of eBee utilization in the United States. We further believe it will improve the business applications made possible by our drone platform for a wide range of commercial enterprises which stand to benefit from adoption of drones in their businesses particularly those in industries such as insurance for assessment of storm damage, telecommunications for network coverage mapping and energy for powerline and pipeline inspections, just to name a few. Our eBee X series of drones are the worlds first UAS in its class to receive design verification for BVLOS and OOP from European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The EASA design verification report demonstrates that the eBee X meets the highest possible quality and ground risk safety standards and, thanks to its lightweight design, effects of ground impact are reduced. As such, drone operators conducting advanced drone operations in 27 European Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland can obtain the HIGH or MEDIUM robustness levels of the M2 mitigation without additional verification from EASA. Regulatory constraints relating to limitations of BVLOS and OOP have continued to be a gating factor to widespread adoption of commercial drone technologies across a wide range of industry sectors worldwide. Being the first company to receive this DVR from EASA for M2 mitigation is a milestone for AgEagle and our industry in the European Union and will be key to fueling growth of our international customer base. In August 2022, we announced that the eBee X, eBee GEO and eBee AG were the first commercial drones to be designated with the C2 class identification label in accordance with EASA regulations. As of August 22, 2022, drone operators flying C2 labeled eBees are able to conduct missions in the Open Category with all the advantages that this entails. The C2 certification allows the eBee X series, with correct labelling, to fly at a horizontal distance of 30 meters from uninvolved people. By contrast, heavy drones like VTOLs or quadcopters must maintain a distance of 150 meters from people and any residential, commercial, industrial and recreational areas, limiting their operational capabilities to remote zones. In early October 2023, the eBee X series of drones were designated with the C6 class identification label in accordance with European Union regulations. As of January 1, 2024, drone operators of C6-labeled eBees will be able to conduct Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) operations with airspace observers over a controlled ground area in a sparsely populated environment throughout Europe. Operators simply need to submit a required declaration with their applicable National Aviation Authority indicating whether they intend to fly missions in accordance with the European Standard Scenario- (STS-) 01 or STS-02. The inclusion of the C6 marking alongside our C2-labeled eBee drones will significantly enhance the market advantages for our European customers. It grants access to areas and operational modes restricted to drones weighing over 4 kg, all without the requirement for formal permissions or regulatory waivers. Currently, only eBee drones possess both the C2 and C6 marking, affirming their status as the safest choice for flying over people and conducting BVLOS operations. Our global reseller network currently has more than 200 drone solutions providers in 75+ countries By leveraging our relationships with the specialty retailers that comprise our global reseller network, AgEagle benefits from enhanced brand-building, lower customer acquisition costs and increased reach, revenues and geographic and vertical market penetration. With the integration of our 2021 Acquisitions, we can now leverage our collective reseller network to accelerate our revenue growth by educating and encouraging our partners to market AgEagles full suite of airframes, sensors and software as bundled solutions in lieu of marketing only previously siloed products or product lines to end users. In late 2022, we partnered with government contractor Darley to expand the market reach of AgEagles high performance fixed wing drones and sensors to the U.S. first responder and tactical defense markets. Distinguished as one of the nations longest standing government contracting organizations, Darley is expected to become a key contributor to AgEagles success in delivering best-in-class UAS solutions to a wide range of state and federal agencies. Providing our best-in-class autonomous flight solutions for public safety applications through trusted resellers like Darley represents an entirely new market opportunity for AgEagle and one we intend to vigorously pursue in the current year. 38 Impact of the Risks and Uncertainties on Our Business Operations Global economic challenges, including the impact of the war, pandemics, rising inflation and supply-chain disruptions, regulatory investigations adverse labor and capital market conditions could cause economic uncertainty and volatility. The aforementioned risks and their respective impacts on the UAV industry and our operational and financial performance remains uncertain and outside of our control. Specifically, because of the aforementioned continuing risks, the our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either we or any of our third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 as Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 Revenues For the three months ended September 30, 2023, revenues were $3,483,932 as compared to $5,490,714 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $2,006,782, or 36.5%. The decrease mainly was attributable to a decline in revenues of $1,501,085 of our RedEdge-P and Altum-PT panchromatic sensors, due to continued supply chain and manufacturing constraints, $454,233 of the eBee series of drone products and $51,464 of our SaaS subscription services related to our HempOverview and Ground Control platforms. In addition, the launch of the panchromatic series commenced in the second quarter of 2022, which resulted in higher sales last year due to immediate strong demand and orders for our next generation sensors. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, revenues were $10,819,213 as compared to $14,620,565 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $3,801,352, or 26.0%. The decline in revenues is mainly attributed to the eBee drone products of $2,995,313, $673,143 of our our RedEdge-P and Altum-PT panchromatic sensors and $132,896 of our SaaS subscription services related to our HempOverview and Ground Control platforms. Our continued innovation has demonstrated growth in our sales leading to strong demand of our products, specifically for our panchromatic sensor series, offsetting this growth are delays in our newly announced VISION drone product and Field Check for Measure Ground Control mobile app which we have just begun to deliver to marketplace. Additionally, our business continues to be negatively impacted by supply chain constraints, inflation, adverse labor market conditions and manufacturing disruptions due to the consolidation of our manufacturing facilities. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit For the three months ended September 30, 2023, cost of sales was $2,269,858 as compared to $3,407,573 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $1,137,715, or 33.4%. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, gross profit was $1,214,074 or 34.8%, as compared to $2,083,141 or 37.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $869,067, or 41.7% in actual gross margin. The primary factors contributing to the decrease in our cost of sales and the gross profit margin were due to the decline in revenues from our sensor and our drone products along with significant price reduction in mid-Q2 to stimulate market demand and bring us in line specifically with competitive products manufactured in China as our products become older while awaiting the new ebee VISION. In addition, our sensor sales continue to experience supply chain pressure, because of increases in raw components and labor costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cost of sales was $6,594,973 as compared to $8,622,436 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $2,027,463, or 23.5%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, gross profit was $4,224,240, or 39.0% as compared to $5,998,129 or 41.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $1,773,889, or 29.6% in actual gross margin. The decrease in gross profit margin was a result of our drone products along with significant price reduction in mid-Q2 to stimulate market demand and bring us in line specifically with competitive products manufactured in China as our products become older while awaiting the new ebee VISION. In addition, our sensor sales continue to experience supply chain pressure, because of increases in raw components and labor costs. 39 Operating Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, operating expenses were $7,204,187, as compared to $7,230,471 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $26,284, or 0.4%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, operating expenses were $19,247,300, as compared to $24,015,980 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $4,768,680, or 19.9%. Operating expenses comprise general and administrative, sales and marketing, research and development and impairment charges for goodwill and an operating lease. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $3,357,550 as compared to $4,175,090 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $817,540, or 19.6%. The decrease was primarily a result of the integration of the 2021 Business Acquisitions that provided continued decreases in general and administrative costs in professional fees, relating mainly to legal and consulting fees, insurance, lease expenses due to combination of offices, reduction in employee payroll related costs due to integration of roles, ERP consulting integration costs, reduction in R&D consultants, less stock compensation costs offset by increased shareholder annual meeting costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $10,435,834 as compared to $14,093,655 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $3,657,821, or 26.0%. The decrease was primarily a result of the integration of the 2021 Business Acquisitions which provided costs primarily included lease expenses due to combination of offices, reduction in employee payroll related costs due to integration of roles, ERP consulting integration costs, reduction in R&D consultants, less stock compensation costs offset by increased shareholder annual meeting costs. Research and Development For the three months ended September 30, 2023, research and development expenses were $1,368,394 as compared to $1,818,540 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $450,146, or 24.8%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe, sensor and software technologies resulting in a reduction in our consultants and internal headcounts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, research and development expenses were $4,320,216, as compared to $6,185,777 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $1,865,561, or 30.2%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe, sensor and software technologies resulting in a reduction in our consultants and internal headcounts. Sales and Marketing For the three months ended September 30, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $978,243 as compared to $1,236,841 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $258,598, or 20.9%. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of travel and payroll related costs due to the integration of sales and marketing teams, along with a decrease in consulting expenses due to branding and website integration done in prior year along with less tradeshows offset by more in-person demos with our sales and marketing team for the new eBee VISON. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $2,911,963 as compared to $3,736,548 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, a decrease of $824,585, or 22.1%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of sales and marketing teams, along with a decrease in consulting expenses due to branding and website integration done in prior year along with less tradeshows offset by more in-person demos with our sales and marketing team for the new ebee VISON. Impairment Charges For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $1,500,000 on our SaaS reporting unit due to its carrying value exceeded its fair value. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we also recognized an impairment charge on a subleased operating lease of $79,287 for the excess of the carrying value of the right of use asset at time of the sublease and the expected future cash flows from the sublease. 40 Other Income (Expense), net For the three months ended September 30, 2023, other expense, net was $2,030,015 as compared to other income, net of $6,812,282 for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase of the expense was primarily attributable to the promissory notes original issue discount of 4% and interest at 8% per annum issued in December 2022 along with the amendment executed to the promissory note on August 14, 2023, resulting in a debt extinguishment costs of $1,523,867, also the net foreign currency transaction losses incurred by the drone (senseFly) business, the other income for the same period in 2022 was attributable to a non-cash gain on debt extinguishment associated with reductions of holdback liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of senseFly and MicaSense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, other expense, net was $2,887,150 as compared to other income, net of $6,484,495 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase of the expense was primarily attributable to the promissory notes original issue discount of 4% and interest at 8% per annum issued in December 2022 along with the amendment executed to the promissory note on August 14, 2023, resulting in a debt extinguishment costs of $1,523,867, also the net foreign currency transaction losses incurred by the drone (senseFly) business, the other income for the same period in 2022 was attributable to a non-cash gain on debt extinguishment associated with reductions of holdback liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of senseFly and MicaSense. Net Loss For the three months ended September 30, 2023, we incurred a net loss of $8,020,128 as compared to a net income of $1,664,952 for the three months ended September 30, 2022, a loss increases of $9,685,080, or 581.7 %. Overall, the net loss is primarily a result of a decline in our drone business due to declining revenues from sales our legacy products. In addition, due to the decrease in our sales price for eBee products for the quarter, our margins were severely impacted, diminishing our bottom-line results and reflecting a sharp decrease in our operating expenses for the quarter of approximately $2.0 million. and the $6,486,899 non-cash gain on debt extinguishment associated with reductions of holdback liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of senseFly and MicaSense realized in the third quarter of 2022. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Company incurred a net loss of $17,910,210 as compared to a net loss of $11,533,356 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, an increase of $6,376,854, or 55.3%. Overall, the net loss is primarily a result of a decline in our drone and sensor business due to declining revenues from sales of our legacy products net of a decrease in operating costs because of the integration of the 2021 Business Acquisitions and reduction in employee payroll. In addition to the $6,486,899 non-cash gain on debt extinguishment associated with reductions of holdback liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of senseFly and MicaSense realized in the third quarter of 2022. Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 as Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 As of September 30, 2023, cash on hand was $1,600,143, as compared to $4,349,837 as of December 31, 2022, a decrease of $2,749,694. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash used in operations was $8,829,669, a decrease of $6,339,067 or 41.8%, as compared to cash used of $15,168,736 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease in cash used in operating activities was principally driven by lower sales and operating expenses which included significantly lower inventory purchases, prepaids, accounts payable, accrued expenses and contract liabilities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $564,116, a decrease of $7,498,625, or 93.0%, as compared to cash used of $8,062,741 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease in cash used in our investing activities resulted mainly from the business acquisition of MicaSense and senseFly that occurred in 2022 and a decrease in platform and internal use software costs along with purchases of property and equipment. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $6,730,348, a decrease of $7,674,030 or 53.2%, as compared to cash provided of $14,404,378 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease in cash provided by our financing activities was due to less sales of our Common stock through an at-the-market (ATM) offering and exercise of warrants in the prior year offset by the sale of Series F Preferred stock issuance of Common Stock and Warrant. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2023, we had a working capital of $2,818,220. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we incurred a loss from operations of $15,023,060, a decrease of $2,994,791, or 16.6%, as compared to $18,017,851 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. While we have historically been successful in raising capital to meet its working capital needs, the ability to continue raising such capital to enable us to continue our growth is not guaranteed. We will require additional liquidity to continue its operations and meet its financial obligations over the next twelve (12) months, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are evaluating strategies to obtain the required additional funding for future operations and the restructuring of operations to grow revenues and reduce expenses. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we raised $6,817,400 in equity from the additional sale of Series F Preferred Stock and Offering of our Common Stock. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On September 30, 2023, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. Inflation During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, inflation had a negative impact on the unmanned aerial vehicle systems industry, our customers and our business globally. Specifically, our ability to access components, parts and labor needed to manufacture our proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either the Company or any of its third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. We expect inflation and its effects to continue to have a significant negative impact on our business. Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries and are not expected to a have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.