ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not materially affected by inflation. Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle, Company, We, Our, Us), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. AgEagles shift and expansion from solely manufacturing fixed-wing farm drones in 2018, to offering what we believe is one of the industrys best fixed-wing, full-stack drone solutions, culminated in 2021 when we acquired three market-leading companies engaged in producing UAS airframes, sensors and software for commercial and government use. In addition to a robust portfolio of proprietary, connected hardware and software products; an established global network of over 200 UAS resellers; and enterprise customers worldwide; these acquisitions also brought AgEagle a highly valuable workforce comprised largely of experienced engineers and technologists with deep expertise in the fields of robotics, automation, manufacturing and data science. In 2022, we succeeded in integrating all three acquired companies with AgEagle to form one global company focused on taking autonomous flight performance to a higher level for a wider variety of markets, including defense and security. AgEagle has also achieved numerous regulatory firsts, earning governmental approvals for its commercial and tactical drones to fly Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) and/or Operations Over People (OOP) in the United States, Canada, Brazil and the European Union. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience and is currently headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, where we house our business and sensor manufacturing operations; and we operate drone manufacturing operations in Lausanne, Switzerland in support of our international business activities. We are focused on growing our business, generating cash, and preserve our leadership position by developing new drones, sensors and embedded software and capturing a significant share of the global drone market. In addition, we expect to accelerate our growth and expansion through product development and strategic acquisitions of companies that offer distinct technological and competitive advantages and have defensible high value IP protection in place, if applicable. Key Growth Strategies We intend to materially grow our business by leveraging our proprietary, best-in-class, full-stack drone solutions, multi-spectral sensors, industry influence, and deep pool of talent with specialized expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science to achieve greater penetration of the global UAS industry with near-term emphasis on adding stability and discipline to our operations, and capturing larger market share of the agriculture, defense, security, and civil/commercial markets. We expect to accomplish this goal by first bringing three core values to life in our day-to-day operations and aligning them with our efforts to earn the trust and continued business of our customers and industry partners: 37 Curiosity this pushes us to find value where others arent looking. It inspires us to see around corners for our customers, understanding the problems they currently face or will be facing in the future, and delivering them solutions best suited for their unique needs. Passion this fuels our obsession with excellence, our desire to try the difficult things and tackle big problems, and our commitment to meet our customers needs and then surpass them. Integrity this is not optional or situational at AgEagle it is the foundation for everything we do, even when no one is watching. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Shift priority to a Laser-like focus on the higher volume defense & security market. Despite predictions of rapid growth in the commercial space, drone surveillance action in the defense and security world has outpaced commercial application in volume and overall growth. The current world situation further emphasizes the need for our products, and the validity of the defense market. AgEagle will focus on defense growth initiatives while continuing to execute, grow, and maximize our position in precision agriculture and other civil and commercial markets. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are critical building blocks of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in innovation, not only in our products, but also in innovative business models and operational methods Foster our entrepreneurial culture on a bedrock of trust and integrity, continuing to attract, develop and retain highly skilled personnel. The AgEagle culture encourages innovation and entrepreneurialism, which helps attract and retain highly skilled professionals. In addition, AgEagle is dedicated to integrity and transparency in its business, external, and internal relationships. Effectively manage our growth portfolio for long-term value creation. Our production and development programs present numerous investment opportunities that we believe will deliver long-term growth by providing our customers with valuable new capabilities. We evaluate each opportunity, and its cost, against our mission and strategic priorities, as well as near and mid-term expected returns. This process helps us make informed decisions regarding potential growth capital requirements and supports our allocation of resources based on relative risks and returns to maximize long-term value creation, which is the key objective of our growth strategy. Growth through acquisition. Through successful identification of high-value acquisition targets, we plan to acquire technologically advanced companies and intellectual property across an array of airborne platforms, focused robotic technologies, and a variety of artificial intelligence-enabled robotics and supporting technologies that complement and strengthen our value proposition. 38 Competitive Strengths We believe that the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience We believe our decade of experience in commercial UAS design and engineering, in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities, and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. In fact, approximately 70% of our global workforce is comprised of engineers and data scientists with deep experience and expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing, and data analytics. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our U.S. and Swiss-based manufacturing operations. As a result, we have earned ISO:9001 international certification for our Quality Management System. We leverage maximum use of commercial technology: At AgEagle, we excel in designing and manufacturing small UAS, along with sensors and software tailored for UAS applications, providing versatile solutions like our latest product the eBee VISION UAS. This integration of commercial technology with dual-use capabilities enables our customers to effectively address a diverse range of operational challenges. Our design, production, and support are user-centric: Our commitment to incorporating user feedback into our product development process is paramount. By collaborating closely with our end-users, we ensure that our product lines align with their specific needs and requirements. Through our expertise in drone and sensor design and our close connection with our end-users, they benefit from cutting-edge technologies that meets their demands across military, first responder, agriculture and surveyor sectors while leveraging the advantages of commercial innovation. We offer market-tested drones, sensors and system software that have earned the longstanding trust and fidelity of customers worldwide Through successful execution of our acquisition integration strategy in 2021, AgEagle is now delivering a unified line of industry trusted drones, sensors and software that have been vigorously tested and consistently proven across multiple industry verticals and use cases. For instance, our line of eBee fixed wing drones have flown more than one million flights over the past decade serving customers spanning military/defense, surveying and mapping; engineering and construction; mining, quarries and aggregates; agriculture; humanitarian aid and environmental monitoring, to name just a few. Featured in over 100 research publications globally, advanced sensor innovations developed and commercialized by AgEagle have served to forge new industry standards for high performance, high resolution, thermal and multispectral imaging for commercial drone applications in agriculture, plant research, land management and forestry. In addition, we have championed the development of end-to-end software solutions which power autonomous flight and deliver actionable, contextual data and analytics for numerous Fortune 500 companies, government agencies and a wide range of businesses in agriculture, energy and utilities, construction and other industry sectors. In August 2022, we announced that the eBee X, eBee GEO and eBee AG were the first commercial drones to be designated with the C2 class identification label in accordance with EASA regulations. As of August 22, 2022, drone operators flying C2 labeled eBees are able to conduct missions in the Open Category with all the advantages that this entails. The C2 certification allows the eBee X series, with correct labelling, to fly at a horizontal distance of 30 meters from uninvolved people. By contrast, heavy drones like VTOLs or quadcopters must maintain a distance of 150 meters from people and any residential, commercial, industrial and recreational areas, limiting their operational capabilities to remote zones. In late 2022, we partnered with government contractor Darley to expand the market reach of AgEagles high performance fixed wing drones and sensors to the U.S. first responder and tactical defense markets. Distinguished as one of the nations longest standing government contracting organizations, Darley is expected to become a key contributor to AgEagles success in delivering best-in-class UAS solutions to a wide range of state and federal agencies. Providing our best-in-class autonomous flight solutions for public safety applications through trusted resellers like Darley represents an entirely new market opportunity for AgEagle and one we intend to vigorously pursue in the current year. In December 2022, we unveiled our new eBee VISION, a small, fixed-wing UAS designed to provide real-time, enhanced situational awareness for critical intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions. This system is packaged for mobile/tactical users, with highly automated command and control software that proves compatible and is in full compliance with the U.S. DoD Robotic and Autonomous System-Air Interoperability Profile (RAS-A IOP). Beginning 2023, three branches of the European military have received eBee VISION drones. In collaboration with these initial end users, weve meticulously designed the eBee VISION User Interface to ensure optimal usability and compatibility with commercial, professional, and NATO standards. This unique interface, when paired with the eBee VISION Ground Control Station, offers highly automated flight modes and precise telemetry to operators, enhancing overall operational efficiency and effectiveness. Our eBee TACUAS is available for purchase for all military branches of US We believe that the eBee TAC is ideally positioned to become an in-demand, mission critical tool for the U.S. military, government and civil agencies and our allies worldwide, positively impacting our financial performance in the years ahead. In addition to being available for purchase under our own GSA Schedule Contract, the eBee TAC is available for purchase by U.S. government agencies and all branches of the military on GSA Schedule Contract #47QTCA18D003G, supplied by Hexagon US Federal as a standalone solution or as part of the Aerial Reconnaissance Tactical Edge Mapping Imagery System (ARTEMIS). 39 AgEagle was awarded a Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) Contract by the U.S. federal governments General Services Administration (GSA) In April 2023, the centralized procurement arm of the federal government, the GSA, awarded us with a five-year MAS contract. The GSA Schedule Contract is a highly coveted award in the government contracting space and is the result of a rigorous proposal process involving the demonstration of products and services in-demand by government agencies, and the negotiation of their prices, qualifications, terms and conditions. Contractors selling through the GSA Contract are carefully vetted and must have a proven track record in the industry. We believe that this will serve to advance our efforts to achieve deeper penetration of the government sector over the next five years. In July 2023 alone, we completed a comprehensive training session with our first European military customers, who were confirmed as eBee VISION operators and qualified trainers of new users. These new customers confirmed with AgEagles technical teams that all operational capabilities of the eBee VISION continue to meet and exceed performance benchmarks in scouting, surveillance, usability, fast deployment and flight time, among other use case criteria specified by the international military community. We have also been working in close collaboration with our network of valued added reselling partners in France, United Kingdom, Poland, Italy and Spain, among other countries, to conduct live demonstrations and technical exchanges with prospective new customers, with emphasis on showcasing use of eBee VISION UAS for public safety and first responder missions, border patrol and a wide range of commercial applications. On September 6, 2023, the Company announced that commercial production of the eBee VISION had commenced and orders for the systems are being accepted since then. In early October 2023, the eBee X series of drones were designated with the C6 class identification label in accordance with European Union regulations. As of January 1, 2024, drone operators of C6-labeled eBees will be able to conduct BVLOS operations with airspace observers over a controlled ground area in a sparsely populated environment throughout Europe. Operators simply need to submit a required declaration with their applicable National Aviation Authority indicating whether they intend to fly missions in accordance with the European Standard Scenario- (STS-) 01 or STS-02. The inclusion of the C6 marking alongside our C2-labeled eBee drones will significantly enhance the market advantages for our European customers. It grants access to areas and operational modes restricted to drones weighing over 4 kg, all without the requirement for formal permissions or regulatory waivers. Currently, only eBee drones possess both the C2 and C6 marking, affirming their status as the safest choice for flying over people and conducting BVLOS operations. As of January 1, 2024, drone operators of C6-labeled eBees will be able to conduct BVLOS operations with airspace observers over a controlled ground area in a sparsely populated environment throughout Europe. Operators simply need to submit a required declaration with their applicable National Aviation Authority indicating whether they intend to fly missions in accordance with the European Standard Scenario- (STS-) 01 or STS-02. The inclusion of the C6 marking alongside our C2-labeled eBee drones will significantly enhance the market advantages for our European customers. It grants access to areas and operational modes restricted to drones weighing over 4 kg, all without the requirement for formal permissions or regulatory waivers. Currently, only eBee drones possess both the C2 and C6 marking, affirming their status as the safest choice for flying over people and conducting BVLOS operations. In March of 2024, we were selected to provide 50 RedEdge-P cameras for use by Greeces Hellenic Republic Ministry of Rural Development. These will be used for optimum monitoring of agricultural activity such as soil analysis, irrigation, crop quality/maturity, and vegetation indices, all critical to maximizing the output of agricultural products. This award serves as a continued validation of our product in a world focusing more and more on optimizing output for a rapidly growing population. Investment in our sensor product line continues, with focus on optimizing performance through introduction of new hardware and processing algorithms. 40 Our eBee X series of fixed wing UAS, including the eBee X, eBee Geo and eBee TAC, were the first on the market to comply with Category 3 of the sUAS Over People rules published by the FAA. It is another important testament of our commitment to providing best-in-class solutions to our commercial customers, and we believe it will serve as a key driver in the growth of eBee utilization in the United States. We further believe it will improve the business applications made possible by our drone platform for a wide range of commercial enterprises which stand to benefit from adoption of drones in their businesses particularly those in industries such as insurance for assessment of storm damage, telecommunications for network coverage mapping and energy for powerline and pipeline inspections, just to name a few. Our eBee X series of drones are the worlds first UAS in its class to receive design verification for BVLOS and OOP from European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The EASA design verification report demonstrates that the eBee X meets the highest possible quality and ground risk safety standards and, thanks to its lightweight design, effects of ground impact are reduced. As such, drone operators conducting advanced drone operations in 27 European Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland can obtain the HIGH or MEDIUM robustness levels of the M2 mitigation without additional verification from EASA. Regulatory constraints relating to limitations of BVLOS and OOP have continued to be a gating factor to widespread adoption of commercial drone technologies across a wide range of industry sectors worldwide. Being the first company to receive this DVR from EASA for M2 mitigation is a milestone for AgEagle and our industry in the European Union and will be key to fueling growth of our international customer base. Impact of the Risks and Uncertainties On Our Business Operations Global economic challenges, including the impact of the war, pandemics, rising inflation and supply-chain disruptions, regulatory investigations adverse labor and capital market conditions could cause economic uncertainty and volatility. The aforementioned risks and their respective impacts on the UAV industry and our operational and financial performance remain uncertain and outside of our control. Specifically, because of the aforementioned continuing risks, our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either we or any of our third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 as Compared to Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 Revenues For the three months ended June 30, 2024, revenues were $3,392,538 as compared to $3,278,212 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $114,326, or 3.5%. The increase of $114,326 was attributable to an increase of $67,677 revenues derived from our sensor sales, specifically the RedEdge and Altum panchromatic series, an increase of $83,773 in revenues of the eBee drone products, offsetting these increases was a decline of $37,124 in our SaaS subscription services related to the Ground Control platforms. Our continued innovation has demonstrated growth in our sales leading to strong demand for our products, specifically for our panchromatic sensor series. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, revenues were $7,286,985 as compared to $7,335,281 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $48,296 or 0.7%. The decline in revenues is mainly attributed to the eBee drone products of $736,057 and $43,261 of our SaaS subscription services related to our HempOverview and Ground Control platforms. Offsetting these decreases was an increase in revenues of $731,022 attributable to the revenues derived from our sensor sales, specifically the RedEdge-P and Altum-PT panchromatic sensor series. Our continued innovation has demonstrated growth in our sales leading to strong demand of our products, specifically for our panchromatic sensor series, offsetting this growth are delays in our newly announced VISION drone product. 41 Cost of Sales and Gross Profit For the three months ended June 30, 2024, cost of sales was $1,837,963 as compared to $2,246,678 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $408,715 or 18.2%. For the three months ended June 30, 2024, gross profit was $1,554,575 as compared to $1,031,534 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $523,041, or 50.7%. The primary factors contributing to the decrease in our cost of sales and the increase gross profit margin were due to the historical inventory adjustments and new bill of material system implementation. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, cost of sales was $3,777,988 as compared to $4,325,115 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $547,127, or 12.6%. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, gross profit was $3,508,997 or 48.2% as compared to $3,010,166 or 41% for the six months ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $498,831, or 16.6% in actual gross margin. The increase in gross profit margin was a result of our drone products along with significant price reduction in the second quarter of 2023 to stimulate market demand and bring us in line specifically with competitive products manufactured in China as our products become older while awaiting the new ebee VISION. In addition to drone sales our sensor sales continue to experience supply chain pressure related to our sensor sales specifically as a result of an increase in raw components and labor costs. Operating Expenses For the three months ended June 30, 2024, operating expenses were $4,095,043, as compared to $5,903,372 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $1,808,329, or 30.6%. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, operating expenses were $8,443,353, as compared to $12,043,112 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $3,599,759, or 29.9%. Operating expenses comprise general and administrative, sales and marketing, and research and development. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended June 30, 2024, general and administrative expenses were $2,359,105 as compared to $3,498,761 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $1,139,656 or 32.6%. The decrease was primarily related to less stock compensation expense related to terminated employees, and the reduced stock price, less intangible amortization during 2024 due to the impairment recorded on December 31, 2023, less shareholders annual meeting cost, offset by legal fees, accounting and consulting expense. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, general and administrative expenses were $5,041,763 as compared to $7,078,283 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $2,036,520, or 28.8%. The decrease was primarily a result of the reduction in employee payroll related costs due to integration of roles, ERP consulting integration costs, reduction in R&D consultants, less stock compensation costs, less intangible amortization during 2024 due to the impairment recorded on December 31, 2023, less shareholders annual meeting costs offset by an increase in legal, accounting, consulting, and recruitment costs during 2024. Research and Development For the three months ended June 30, 2024, research and development expenses were $1,082,007 as compared to $1,369,479 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $287,472, or 21.0%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe, sensor and software technologies resulting in a reduction in our consultants and internal headcounts. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, research and development expenses were $2,212,236, as compared to $2,951,822 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $739,586, or 25.1%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe, sensor and software technologies resulting in a reduction in our consultants and internal headcounts. 42 Sales and Marketing For the three months ended June 30, 2024, sales and marketing expenses were $653,931 as compared to $955,845 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $301,914, or 31.6%. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in travel, integration of sales and marketing teams that lead to a reduction of consulting expenses along with decrease in digital advertising spend as we look to attend in-person trade shows. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, sales and marketing expenses were $1,189,354 as compared to $1,933,720 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $744,366, or 38.5%. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of sales and marketing teams, along with a decrease in consulting expenses due to branding and website integration done in prior year along with less trade-shows offset by more in-person demos with our sales and marketing team for the new ebee VISON. Other Expense, net For the three months ended June 30, 2024, other expense, net was $389,240 as compared to $418,745 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $29,505. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, other expense, net was $4,310,939 as compared to other income, net of $857,136 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $3,453,803. The increase is primarily attributable to the promissory notes original issue discount of 4% and interest at 8% per annum issued in December 2022 along with the anti-dilution price protections embedded in the convertible note that were triggered during the six months ended June 30, 2024, we recognized interest expense of $3,488,851 for the incremental value of the convertible note conversion feature being reduced from its original conversion price of $1.25 to $0.60 which is the gross amount recorded in the prior quarter of 2024. Net Loss For the three months ended June 30, 2024, we incurred a net loss of $2,929,708 as compared to a net loss of $5,290,583 for the three months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $2,360,875, or 44.6%., the decrease of the losses are related to the above mentioned reductions of costs related to general and administrative, research and development, and sales and marketing. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, the Company incurred a net loss of $9,245,295 as compared to a net loss of $9,890,082 for the six months ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of $644,787, or 6.5%. The overall decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to a decrease in operating costs. Cash Flows Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 as Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 As of June 30, 2024, cash on hand was $977,208, as compared to $819,024 as of December 31, 2023, a increase of $158,184, or 19.3%. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, cash used in operations was $2,983,430, a decrease of $3,799,889 or 56.0%, as compared to cash used of $6,783,320 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in cash used in operating activities was principally driven by the lower operating expenses which included significantly lower inventory purchases and prepayments offset by higher accounts receivables, account payables and accrued expenses. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, cash used in investing activities was $92,995, a decrease of $331,349, or 78.1%, as compared to cash used of $424,344 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease is related to the capitalization of the internal software during 2023 which did not continued in 2024. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, cash provided by financing activities was $3,289,258 a decrease of $3,487,215 or 51.5%, as compared to cash provided of $6,776,473 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by our financing activities was due to less sales of our Common stock through an at-the-market offering and exercise of warrants in the prior year offset by the sale of Series F Preferred stock. 43 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2024, we had a working capital deficit of $2,809,813. For the six months ended June 30, 2024, we incurred a loss from operations of $4,934,356, a decrease of $4,098,590, or 45.4%, as compared to $9,032,946 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. While we have historically been successful in raising capital to meet its working capital needs, the ability to continue raising such capital to enable us to continue our growth is not guaranteed. We will require additional liquidity to continue its operations and meet its financial obligations over the next twelve months, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are evaluating strategies to obtain the required additional funding for future operations and the restructuring of operations to grow revenues and reduce expenses. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On June 30, 2024, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. Inflation During the six months ended June 30, 2024, inflation has had a negative impact on the unmanned aerial vehicle systems industry, our customers, and our business globally. Specifically, our ability to access components, parts and labor needed to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either the Company or any of its third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. We expect inflation and its effects to continue to have a significant negative impact on our business. Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements In December 2023, FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09). The ASU focuses on income tax disclosures around effective tax rates and cash income taxes paid. ASU 2023-09 requires public business entities to disclose, on an annual basis, a rate reconciliation presented in both dollars and percentages. The guidance requires the rate reconciliation to include specific categories and provides further guidance on disaggregation of those categories based on a quantitative threshold equal to 5% or more of the amount determined by multiplying pretax income (loss) from continuing operations by the applicable statutory rate. For entities reconciling to the US statutory rate of 21%, this would generally require disclosing any reconciling items that impact the rate by 1.05% or more. ASU 2023-09 is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024 (generally, calendar year 2025) and effective for all other business entities one year later. Entities should adopt this guidance on a prospective basis, though retrospective application is permitted. The adoption of ASU 2023-09 is expected to have a financial statement disclosure impact only and is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures. The ASU will now require public entities to disclose its significant segment expenses categories and amounts for each reportable segment. Under the ASU, a significant segment expense is an expense that is: 44 significant to the segment, regularly provided to or easily computed from information regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and included in the reported measure of segment profit or loss. The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024 (calendar year public entity will adopt the ASU in its 2024 Form 10-K). The ASU should be adopted retrospectively unless its impracticable to do so. Early adoption of the ASU is permitted, including in an interim period. The adoption of ASU 2023-07 is expected to have a financial statement disclosure impact only and is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.