ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not significantly affected by inflation. Company Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle or the Company) designs, produces and supports technologically-advanced small, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs or drones). In addition, providing new utility to UAVs, the Company pioneers, and innovates advanced aerial imaging data collection and analytics technologies capable of addressing the impending food and environmental sustainability crises that threaten our planet. Historically, the Company has focused on delivering tools and strategies necessary to define and implement commercial drone construction and delivery, along with sustainability and precision farming solutions that solve important problems confronting the global agricultural industry. In fact, AgEagle has spent eight years serving customers, covering more than two million acres in 50 countries monitoring 53 different crops. AgEagle remains intent on earning distinction as a trusted partner to clients seeking to adopt and support productive agricultural approaches to better farming practices which limit the impact on our natural resources, reduce reliance on inputs and materially increase crop yields and profits. In early 2019, AgEagle further expanded its marketing efforts to provide for the introduction of ParkView , its proprietary aerial imagery and data analytics platform, designed to support municipal, state and federal agencies charged with assessing and supporting sustainability initiatives involving public parks and recreation areas, also referred to as urban green spaces. In late May 2019, AgEagle announced the introduction of HempOverview , a proprietary web- and map-based Software-as-a-Solution (SaaS) technology designed to aid U.S. state and territorial departments of agriculture, growers and processors in efficiently optimizing oversight, compliance and enforcement of the new hemp cultivation industry fast emerging in the United States. Growers, state administrators and/or processors may connect and maintain proactive two-way communications and collaborate on developing best practices for hemp cultivation registration/permitting, planting/harvesting planning, regulatory oversight and compliance enforcement. Moreover, anticipated benefits for state administrators include lower program management costs, new revenue channel development, real or near real-time remote, centralized oversight of hemp fields, and much more. On November 12, 2019, the Company announced that the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (FDACS) had chosen AgEagles HempOverview software-as-a-solution (SaaS) platform to manage the online application submission and registration process for hemp growers and their farms and hemp fields for the 2020, 2021 and 2022 planting seasons. 27 Table of Contents The Company also designs, produces, distributes and supports technologically advanced small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs or drones) that AgEagle offers for commercial sale to the precision agriculture industry. In addition to UAV sales, in late 2018, the Company introduced a new drone-leasing program, alleviating farmers and agribusinesses from significant upfront costs associated with purchasing a drone, while also relieving them from ongoing drone maintenance and support requirements. Additionally, the new program provides the option of engaging a trained AgEagle pilot to operate the drone and manage the entire image collection process, creating a truly turnkey aerial imagery capture solution for its customers. On September 3, 2019, we announced that we actively begun pursuing expansion opportunities within the emerging Drone Logistics and Transportation Market a market forecasted by MarketsandMarkets to grow to $29.06 billion by the year 2027. Accordingly, companies, including Alphabet (Google), FedEx, Intel, Qualcomm, Amazon, Target, Walmart, Alibaba, UPS, 7-Eleven, Uber and others, are developing commercial drone delivery service initiatives as part of their long-term strategic growth plans. We believe these companies intend to leverage the latest in unmanned aerial vehicle technologies to deliver consumer products, foods, medicines and other types of lightweight freight direct to consumers and businesses in the fastest, most cost efficient and environmentally responsible manner possible a practical alternative to costly auto transport. We received our first purchase orders from a major ecommerce company to manufacture and assemble UAVs designed to meet the critical specifications for drones that are meant to carry goods in urban and suburban areas. Revenue generation from these purchase orders commenced in the third quarter ended September 30, 2019 and is expected to continue and increase in the fourth quarter of 2019. Central to the Companys long-term growth strategy, AgEagle will continue to identify opportunities to leverage its proprietary technological platform and industry expertise to penetrate new, high growth market sectors that may benefit from the Companys advanced aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions. Research and development activities are integral to our business and we follow a disciplined approach to investing our resources to create new technologies and solutions. Our business is seasonal in nature and, as a result, our revenue and expenses and associated revenue trends fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The following summarizes k ey components of our growth strategy include the following: Achieving greater market penetration of the U.S. industrial hemp industry by working to establish HempOverview and other related products and services as the gold industry standard for hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement and commerce. AgEagle is and intends to remain at the leading edge of leveraging best-in-class technology to provide turnkey solutions for state and tribal regulatory departments of agriculture, industrial hemp and hemp-derived CBD growers and processors. At this time, AgEagle believes that it is the only company in the nation with extensive experience in agriculture that is effectively addressing the emerging needs and challenges of the domestic hemp cultivation industry through the application of advanced technology a key competitive differential that the Company hopes to capitalize on in the coming year. 28 Table of Contents Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other complementary industries besides agriculture, including the Drone Logistics and Transportation market. We have begun actively exploring opportunities outside of traditional agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products and solutions we offer today and believe that these products and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. In addition to drone package deliveries, we believe that our solutions and services may also be well suited for the aerial imaging and data collection and analytics needs involved in land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue operations, among other industrial applications. As of today, we manufacture all of our proprietary and contracted products at our secure manufacturing facility in Neodesha, Kansas, which allows us to avoid many of the potential difficulties that may arise if our manufacturing facilities were otherwise located outside the U.S., which is of particular importance to those AgEagle customers who rely on confidentiality and protection of trade secrets in the development of their drone delivery initiatives. Deliver new and innovative solutions in the precision agriculture space. Our research and development efforts are the foundation of our Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. We believe that by investing in research and development, we can be a leader in delivering innovative products that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Work with municipal, state and federal public parks and recreations agencies to adopt ParkView as a preferred solution for assessing and supporting sustainability initiatives for urban green spaces. With the signing of Denver Parks and Recreation in Denver, Colorado, AgEagle now has a client who is benefitting from the utilization of ParkView to better inform vegetative maintenance and natural resource preservation of its green infrastructure, comprising more than 6,000 acres of public green space within the city limits. We intend to market our ParkView platform to other prospective U.S. city, state and federal agencies. Support and expand our University Drone Program. Subsequent to the end of 2018, the Company introduced our new University Drone Program providing for AgEagles aerial imaging collection and data processing systems to be purchased and utilized by colleges and universities to enhance the curriculum of their agriculture technology departments including in precision ag, agronomy, plant science and mapping, among other related study areas. In January 2019, we announced that both Arkansas State University-Newport (ASU) and Modesto Junior College (MJC) in California have teamed with our Company to provide students with hands-on training and experience properly operating drones, creating digital aerial maps through the AgEagle FarmLens platform, and using data collected to achieve sustainable farming objectives. We believe that our University Drone Program not only represents a new revenue channel for us, but it will serve as a powerful brand-building opportunity for AgEagle among those who are studying to become commercial growers, agronomists and precision and sustainability ag experts and specialists. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are the foundation of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy the Companys customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative products that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other industries besides agriculture. The Company may investigate and pursue opportunities outside of agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products and solutions we offer today and believe that these products and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. These industries have yet to be identified by the AgEagle team, but may include verticals such as land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue. 29 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths AgEagle believes the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technology and trade secrets - We believe our unique design and in-house manufacturing of key aerospace components differentiates our product in the marketplace. We are confident that our UAVs are industry-leading in durability due to the lightweight laminated shell of the wing, which is made using a proprietary manufacturing process innovated over five years of research and development. This process, which hardens the material used to build the shell, allows the UAV to perform in harsh weather conditions (with wind speeds up to 30 miles per hour) and bring itself to an unassisted landing, all at a total weight of about six pounds. This design is an important trade secret, and AgEagle has non-disclosure agreements with our employees in order to keep it unique to our Company. As of today, we manufacture all of our products at our manufacturing facility in Neodesha, Kansas, which allows us to avoid many of the potential difficulties that may arise if our manufacturing facilities were otherwise located outside the U.S. In addition, all our UAVs are designed and assembled here in the U.S. Solutions have global appeal - We believe that our technology addresses a need for better data and delivers actionable understanding of that data to stakeholders in the agriculture industry worldwide. Given our global distribution platform, we believe that AgEagle is well-positioned for its UAVs, aerial imagery-enabled data capture and advanced data analytics solutions to be effectively marketed and sold to customers worldwide. Advanced technology solutions allow users to remove the guesswork in effectively managing hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement, reporting and commerce - To our knowledge, there is no other SaaS solution available on the market today particularly one that has been developed by a proven Agtech company with the level of experience and expertise of AgEagle that provides the multi-faceted level of support and services that HempOverview offers to all stakeholders in the industry. Increased margins for farmers - We believe our UAVs will directly enhance margins for commercial farmers by reducing the amount of nutrients and chemicals needed to manage their farms. The software equipped on our UAVs deliver a high-quality aerial map upon completion of the flight, allowing the user to accurately identify the specific areas that are malnourished. This software is compatible with precision applicator tractors, which assist users in applying a precise amount of nutrients in only the areas it is needed. In addition, Our UAVs are specially designed to provide users with a portable and easy to operate device, which can be controlled with a hand-held unit or tablet. Through our FarmLens platform, users are able to plan and track an efficient flight path for their UAV. The UAVs are equipped with a camera and NIR filter whose images provide a holistic aerial view of the fields, along with meaningful data that is uploaded and delivered to the user within a very short time frame. As a result, this platform allows users to quickly detect any issues in their crops, which enables them to address such issues in a timely manner before any damage, or further damage, may affect their crops. Increased transparency for food and consumer goods manufacturers - We believe our UAVs and the data platform we continue to advance present us a unique opportunity to be one of the first companies to offer major manufacturers a way to connect to the sustainable efforts being made by the farmers from whom they purchase crops for their food and consumer goods products. This would allow manufacturers to confidently claim their products are made with less chemicals on their packaging and in their marketing. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in