ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not materially affected by inflation. Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle or the Company), through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. Today, the Company is earning distinction as a globally respected industry leader offering best-in-class, autonomous UAV systems to a wide range of industry verticals, including energy/utilities, infrastructure, agriculture and government, among others. The Companys shift and expansion from solely manufacturing fixed-wing farm drones in 2018, to offering what the Company believes is one of the industrys best fixed-wing, full-stack drone solutions, culminated in 2021 when AgEagle acquired three market-leading companies engaged in producing UAV airframes, sensors and software for commercial and government use. In addition to a robust portfolio of proprietary, connected hardware and software products, an established global network of nearly 200 UAV resellers, and enterprise customers worldwide, these acquisitions also brought AgEagle a highly valuable workforce comprised largely of experienced engineers and technologists with deep expertise in the fields of robotics, automation, manufacturing and data science. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience. In view of AgEagles participation in the Unmanned Aircraft Systems Beyond Visual Line of Sight Aviation Rulemaking Committee, and its participation in the U.S. Federal Aviation Administrations BEYOND program, AgEagle has played a hands-on role in helping to establish necessary rulemaking guidelines and regulations for the future of autonomous flight and the full integration of drones into the U.S. airspace. The Company is headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, where it maintains its U.S. manufacturing operations. In addition, AgEagle has business operations in Austin, Texas; Lausanne, Switzerland; Raleigh, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and Washington, D.C. Key Growth Strategies We intend to materially grow our business by leveraging our proprietary, best-in-class, full-stack drone solutions, industry influence and deep pool of talent with specialized expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science to achieve greater penetration of the global UAV industry with near-term emphasis on capturing larger market share of the agriculture, energy/utilities, infrastructure and government/military verticals. We expect to accomplish this goal by first bringing three core values to life in our day-to-day operations and aligning them with our efforts to earn the trust and continued business of our customers and industry partners: 26 1. Curiosity this pushes us to find value where others arent looking. It inspires us to see around corners for our customers, understanding the problems they currently face or will be facing in the future, and delivering them solutions best suited for their unique needs. 2. Passion this fuels our obsession with excellence, our desire to try the difficult things and tackle big problems, and our commitment to meet our customers needs and then surpass them. 3. Integrity this is not optional or situational at AgEagle it is the foundation for everything we do, even when no one is watching. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Establish three centers of excellence with respective expertise in UAV software, sensors and airframes. These centers of excellence will cross pollinate ideas, industry insights and skillsets to yield intelligent autonomous solutions that fully leverage AgEagles experienced teams specialized knowledge and know-how in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are critical building blocks of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative autonomous systems and solutions that address market needs beyond our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Growth through acquisition. Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically advanced UAV companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative autonomous flight systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging markets that can benefit from innovations in artificial intelligence-enabled robotics and data capture and analytics. Competitive Strengths AgEagle believes the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience We believe our decade of experience in commercial UAV design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. In fact, approximately 70% of our Companys global workforce is comprised of engineers and data scientists with deep experience and expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data analytics. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our Wichita-based and Swiss manufacturing operations. AgEagle is more than just customer- and product-centric, we are obsessed with innovation and knowing the needs of our customers before they do We are focused on capitalizing on our specialized expertise in innovating and commercializing advanced drone, sensor and software technologies to provide our existing and future customers with autonomous robotic solutions that meet the highest possible safety and operational standards and fit their specific business needs. We have established three Centers of Excellence that our leadership has challenged to cross-pollinate ideas, industry insights and interdisciplinary skillsets to generate intelligent autonomous solutions that efficiently leverage our expertise in robotics, automation and manufacturing to solve problems for our customers, irrespective of the industry sector in which they may operate. 27 We offer market-tested drones, sensors and software solutions that have earned the longstanding trust and fidelity of customers worldwide through successful execution of our acquisition strategy in 2021, AgEagle is now delivering a unified line of industry trusted drones, sensors and software that have been vigorously tested and consistently proven across multiple industry verticals and use cases. For instance, our line of eBee fixed wing drones, pioneered by senseFly, have flown more than one million flights over the past decade serving customers spanning surveying and mapping; engineering and construction; military/defense; mining, quarries and aggregates; agriculture humanitarian aid and environmental monitoring, among just a few. Featured in over 100 research publications globally, advanced sensor innovations developed and commercialized by MicaSense, have served to forge new industry standards for high performance, high resolution, thermal and multispectral imaging for commercial drone applications in agriculture, plant research, land management and forestry. In addition, we have championed the development of end-to-end software solutions which power autonomous flight and deliver actionable, contextual data and analytics for a whos who of Fortune 500 companies, government agencies and a wide range of businesses in agriculture, energy and utilities, construction and other industry sectors. Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations Global economic challenges, including the impact of the war in Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic, rising inflation and supply-chain disruptions, adverse labor market conditions could cause economic uncertainty and volatility. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have a significant negative impact on the UAV industry, our customers, and our business globally. The aforementioned risks and their respective impacts on the UAV industry and our operational and financial performance remains uncertain and outside of our control. Specifically, as a result of the aforementioned continuing risks, our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either the Company or any of its third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. We expect the pandemic, inflation and supply-chain disruptions and its effects to continue to have a significant negative impact on its business for the duration of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery, which could be for an extended period of time. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our supply chain was adversely impacted by the pandemic, causing material delays in the delivery of critical supply orders associated with timely fulfilling our obligations to our large ecommerce client. As a consequence, significant inventory purchases were made in 2021 in order to secure the manufacturing of our products in an effort to prevent delays in 2022. This is an on-going situation that we continue to monitor closely. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 as Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2022, revenues were $3,841,978 as compared to $1,701,592 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $2,140,386, or 125.8%. The increase of $2,738,982 was attributable to the revenues derived from our ebee drone products as a result of the senseFly acquisition and $149,975 of increased sales of our SaaS subscription services related to the HempOverview and Ground Control platforms. Offsetting these increases was a decline in revenues of $748,571 related to our sensor sales, specifically the RedEdge and Altum sensor products due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects that continue to have a negative impact on the business due to supply chain, inflation and adverse labor market conditions, which could be for an extended period of time. 28 Cost of Sales For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cost of sales was $2,477,086 as compared to $621,904 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1,855,182, or 298.3%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, gross profit was $1,364,892 as compared the $1,079,688 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $285,204, or 26.4%. The primary factors contributing to the increase in our cost of sales and decrease in gross profit margin were due to the increase in our cost of components and parts brought forth by the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated negative effects on supply chain, inflation and adverse labor market conditions, and a continued shift in our product mix as a result of the MicaSense and senseFly acquisitions, both of which resulted in lower gross profit margins. Operating Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, operating expenses were $8,846,833, as compared to $4,040,488 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $4,806,345, or 119.0%. Operating expenses comprise general and administrative, professional fees, sales and marketing and research and development. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, general and administrative expenses were $5,481,380 as compared to $3,509,979 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1,971,401, or 56.2%. The increase was primarily as a result of the inclusion of the newly acquired senseFly businesses, along with continued increases in general and administrative costs from all of the other 2021 business acquisitions. These costs primarily included lease expenses, payroll-related costs for new and existing employees, amortization of our acquired intangibles and stock-based compensation expenses, offset by a decrease in professional fees, related mainly to legal and consulting fees. Research and Development For the three months ended March 31, 2022, research and development expenses were $2,184,924 as compared to $232,804 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1,952,120, or 838.5%. The increase was primarily due to the addition of senseFly and Measures research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe and software technologies. Sales and Marketing For the three months ended March 31, 2022, sales and marketing expenses were $1,180,529 as compared to $297,705 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $882,824, or 296.5%. The increase was primarily due to the addition of the senseFly and Measure sales and marketing teams. Other Expense/(Income), net For the three months ended March 31, 2022, other expense, net was $114,631 as compared to other income, net of $30,270 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The change was primarily attributable to the net foreign currency transaction losses incurred by senseFly. Net Loss For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company incurred a net loss of $7,596,572 as compared to a net loss of $2,930,530 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $4,666,042, or 159.2%. The overall increase in net loss was primarily attributable to greater operating and transactional costs as a result of the 2021 Business Acquisitions and a decrease in gross profit margins due to supply chain constraints. In addition, in order to achieve our long-term growth strategies additional resources and investments will be required as we continue to address these shifts by developing new technologies, products and services that support prevailing growth opportunities. 29 Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 as Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 As of March 31, 2022, cash on hand was $9,186,639, as compared to $14,590,566 as of December 31, 2021, a decrease of $5,403,927, or 37%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operations was $6,510,343, an increase of $5,381,752, or 121%, as compared to cash used of $1,128,591 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in cash used in operating activities was principally driven by the operating expenses of our 2021 Business Acquisitions, which included higher inventory purchases and prepayments, and accounts payable, offset by deferred revenue resulting in customer backlog for prepayments on future sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $3,503,158, a decrease of $9,775,733, or 35.8%, as compared to cash used of $13,278,891 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in cash used in our investing activities resulted from the business acquisition of MicaSense in the prior year, offset by the increase in capitalized costs associated with the development of the HempOverview and Measure Ground Control platforms and the senseFly business acquisition. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $4,614,091, a decrease of $10,046,600, or 45.9%, as compared to cash provided of $14,660,691 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in cash provided by our financing activities was due to less sales of our Common stock through an at-the-market (ATM) offering and exercise of warrants in the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had working capital of $3,101,003. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we incurred a loss from operations of $7,481,941, an increase of $4,521,141, or 152.7%, as compared to $2,960,800 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. While there can be no guarantees, we believe the cash on hand, in connection with cash generated from revenues, will be sufficient to fund the next twelve months of operations. In addition, we intend to pursue other opportunities of raising capital with outside investors. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we raised $4,583,341 of net proceeds from our ATM offering with co-agents Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated and Raymond James & Associates. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 31, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. 30 Inflation During the three months ended March 31, 2022, inflation has a negative impact the unmanned aerial vehicle systems industry, our customers, and our business globally. Specifically, our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either the Company or any of its third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. We expect inflation and its effects to continue to have a significant negative impact on its business Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements There were certain updates recently issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries and are not expected to a have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.