ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not materially affected by inflation. Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. ("AgEagle, "Company, We, Our, Us), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. AgEagles shift and expansion from solely manufacturing fixed-wing farm drones in 2018, to offering what we believe is one of the industrys best fixed-wing, full-stack drone solutions, culminated in 2021 when we acquired three market-leading companies engaged in producing UAS airframes, sensors and software for commercial and government use. In addition to a robust portfolio of proprietary, connected hardware and software products; an established global network of over 200 UAS resellers; and enterprise customers worldwide; these acquisitions also brought AgEagle a highly valuable workforce comprised largely of experienced engineers and technologists with deep expertise in the fields of robotics, automation, manufacturing and data science. In 2022, the we succeeded in integrating all three acquired companies with AgEagle to form one global company focused on taking autonomous flight performance to a higher level. AgEagle has also achieved numerous regulatory firsts, earning governmental approvals for its commercial and tactical drones to fly Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) and/or Operations Over People (OOP) in the United States, Canada, Brazil and the European Union and being awarded Blue UAS certification from the Defense Innovation Unit of the U.S. Department of Defense. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience and is currently headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, where we house our sensor manufacturing operations, and we operate our business and drone manufacturing operations in Raleigh, North Carolina. In addition, we operate business and manufacturing operations in Lausanne, Switzerland in support of our international business activities. We intend to grow our business and preserve our leadership position by developing new drones, sensors and software and capturing a significant share of the global drone market. In addition, we expect to accelerate our growth and expansion through strategic acquisitions of companies offering distinct technological and competitive advantages and have defensible IP protection in place, if applicable. 29 Table of Contents Key Growth Strategies We intend to materially grow our business by leveraging our proprietary, best-in-class, full-stack drone solutions, industry influence and deep pool of talent with specialized expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science to achieve greater penetration of the global UAS industry with near-term emphasis on capturing larger market share of the agriculture, energy/utilities, infrastructure and government/military verticals. We expect to accomplish this goal by first bringing three core values to life in our day-to-day operations and aligning them with our efforts to earn the trust and continued business of our customers and industry partners: Curiosity this pushes us to find value where others arent looking. It inspires us to see around corners for our customers, understanding the problems they currently face or will be facing in the future, and delivering them solutions best suited for their unique needs. Passion this fuels our obsession with excellence, our desire to try the difficult things and tackle big problems, and our commitment to meet our customers needs and then surpass them. Integrity this is not optional or situational at AgEagle it is the foundation for everything we do, even when no one is watching. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Establish three centers of excellence with respective expertise in UAS drones, sensors and software. These centers of excellence cross pollinate ideas, industry insights and skillsets to yield intelligent autonomous solutions that fully leverage AgEagles experienced teams specialized knowledge and know-how in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are critical building blocks of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative autonomous robotics systems and solutions that address market needs beyond our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Foster our entrepreneurial culture and continue to attract, develop and retain highly skilled personnel. AgEagles company culture encourages innovation and entrepreneurialism, which helps attract and retain highly skilled professionals. We believe this culture is key to nurture the design and development of the innovative, highly technical system solutions that give us our competitive advantage. Effectively manage our growth portfolio for long-term value creation. Our production and development programs present numerous investment opportunities that we believe will deliver long-term growth by providing our customers with valuable new capabilities. We evaluate each opportunity independently, as well as within the context of other investment opportunities, to determine its relative cost, timing and potential for generation of returns, and thereby its priority. This process helps us make informed decisions regarding potential growth capital requirements and supports our allocation of resources based on relative risks and returns to maximize long-term value creation, which is the key objective of our growth strategy. We also review our portfolio on a regular basis to determine if and when to narrow our focus on the highest potential growth opportunities. Growth through acquisition. Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically advanced UAS companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative autonomous flight systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging markets that can benefit from innovations in artificial intelligence-enabled robotics and data capture and analytics. 30 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths We believe that the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience We believe our decade of experience in commercial UAS design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. In fact, approximately 70% of our global workforce is comprised of engineers and data scientists with deep experience and expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing, and data analytics. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our U.S. and Swiss-based manufacturing operations. As a result, we have earned ISO:9001 international certification for our Quality Management System. AgEagle is more than just customer- and product-centric, we are obsessed with innovation and knowing the needs of our customers before they do We are focused on capitalizing on our specialized expertise in innovating and commercializing advanced drone, sensor and software technologies to provide our existing and future customers with autonomous robotic solutions that meet the highest possible safety and operational standards and fit their specific business needs. We have established three Centers of Excellence that our leadership has challenged to cross-pollinate ideas, industry insights and interdisciplinary skillsets to generate intelligent autonomous solutions that efficiently leverage our expertise in robotics, automation and manufacturing to solve problems for our customers, irrespective of the industry sector in which they may operate. We offer market-tested drones, sensors and software solutions that have earned the longstanding trust and fidelity of customers worldwide Through successful execution of our acquisition integration strategy in 2022, AgEagle is now delivering a unified line of industry trusted drones, sensors and software that have been vigorously tested and consistently proven across multiple industry verticals and use cases. For instance, our line of eBee fixed wing drones have flown more than one million flights over the past decade serving customers spanning surveying and mapping; engineering and construction; military/defense; mining, quarries and aggregates; agriculture humanitarian aid and environmental monitoring, to name just a few. Featured in over 100 research publications globally, advanced sensor innovations developed and commercialized by AgEagle have served to forge new industry standards for high performance, high resolution, thermal and multispectral imaging for commercial drone applications in agriculture, plant research, land management and forestry. In addition, we have championed the development of end-to-end software solutions which power autonomous flight and deliver actionable, contextual data and analytics for numerous Fortune 500 companies, government agencies and a wide range of businesses in agriculture, energy and utilities, construction and other industry sectors. Our eBee TAC UAS has been approved by the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) for procurement by the Department of Defense We believe that the eBee TAC is ideally positioned to become an in-demand, mission critical tool for the U.S. military, government and civil agencies and our allies worldwide; and expect that this will prove to be a major growth catalyst for us in 2022, positively impacting our financial performance in the years ahead. eBee TAC is available for purchase by U.S. government agencies and all branches of the military on GSA Schedule Contract #47QTCA18D003G, supplied by Hexagon US Federal and partner Tough Stump Technologies as a standalone solution or as part of the Aerial Reconnaissance Tactical Edge Mapping Imagery System ("ARTEMIS). Tough Stump is actively engaged in training military ground forces based in the U.S. and in Central Europe on the use of eBee TAC for mid-range tactical mapping and reconnaissance missions. 31 Table of Contents Our eBee X series of fixed wing UAS, including the eBee X, eBee Geo and eBee TAC, are the first and only drones on the market to comply with Category 3 of the sUAS Over People rules published by the FAA. It is another important testament of our commitment to providing best-in-class solutions to our commercial customers, and we believe it will serve as a key driver in the growth of eBee utilization in the United States. We further believe it will improve the business applications made possible by our drone platform for a wide range of commercial enterprises which stand to benefit from adoption of drones in their businesses particularly those in industries such as insurance for assessment of storm damage, telecommunications for network coverage mapping and energy for powerline and pipeline inspections, just to name a few. Our eBee X series of drones are the worlds first UAS in its class to receive design verification for BVLOS and OOP from European Union Aviation Safety Agency ("EASA). The EASA design verification report demonstrates that the eBee X meets the highest possible quality and ground risk safety standards and, thanks to its lightweight design, effects of ground impact are reduced. As such, drone operators conducting advanced drone operations in 27 European Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland can obtain the HIGH or MEDIUM robustness levels of the M2 mitigation without additional verification from EASA. Regulatory constraints relating to limitations of BVLOS and OOP have continued to be a gating factor to widespread adoption of commercial drone technologies across a wide range of industry sectors worldwide. Being the first company to receive this DVR from EASA for M2 mitigation is a milestone for AgEagle and our industry in the European Union and will be key to fueling growth of our international customer base. Our global reseller network currently has more than 200 drone solutions providers in 75+ countries By leveraging our relationships with the specialty retailers that comprise our global reseller network, AgEagle benefits from enhanced brand-building, lower customer acquisition costs and increased reach, revenues and geographic and vertical market penetration. With the integration of our 2021 Acquisitions, we can now leverage our collective reseller network to accelerate our revenue growth by educating and encouraging our partners to market AgEagles full suite of airframes, sensors and software as bundled solutions in lieu of marketing only previously siloed products or product lines to end users. In November 2022, we partnered with government contractor Darley to expand the market reach of AgEagles high performance fixed wing drones and sensors to the U.S. first responder and tactical defense markets. Distinguished as one of the nations longest standing government contracting organizations, Darley is expected to become a key contributor to AgEagles success in delivering best-in-class UAS solutions to a wide range of state and federal agencies. Providing our best-in-class autonomous flight solutions for public safety applications through trusted resellers like Darley represents an entirely new market opportunity for AgEagle and one we intend to vigorously pursue in the coming year. Impact of the Risks and Uncertainties On Our Business Operations Global economic challenges, including the impact of the war in Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic, rising inflation and supply-chain disruptions, adverse labor market conditions could cause economic uncertainty and volatility. The aforementioned risks and their respective impacts on the UAV industry and our operational and financial performance remains uncertain and outside of the our control. Specifically, because of the aforementioned continuing risks, the our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either we or any of our third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 as Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2023, revenues were $4,057,069 as compared to $3,841,978 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $215,091, or 5.6%. The increase of $1,037,177 was attributable to the revenues derived from our sensor sales, specifically the RedEdge and Altum panchromatic series. Offsetting these increases was a decline in revenues of eBee drone products $772,540 and $49,546 of our SaaS subscription services related to the HempOverview and Ground Control platforms. Our continued innovation has demonstrated growth in our sales leading to strong demand of our products, specifically for our panchromatic sensor series, offsetting this growth are delays in our newly announced eBee VISION drone product and Field Check for Measure Ground Control mobile app. Additionally, our business continues to be negatively impacted by supply chain constraints, inflation, and adverse labor market conditions. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cost of sales was $2,078,437 as compared to $2,477,086 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $398,649, or 16.1%. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, gross profit was $1,978,632 as compared to $1,364,892 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $613,740, or 45%. The primary factors contributing to the decrease in our cost of sales and increase in gross profit margin were due to the decrease in our cost of components and parts brought forth in the prior year by COVID-19 pandemic and its associated negative effects on supply chain, inflation and adverse labor market conditions, and an increase in our sales volume specifically for drone and sensor sales. Operating Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, operating expenses were $6,139,740, as compared to $8,846,833 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $2,707,093, or 30.6 %. Operating expenses comprise general and administrative, sales and marketing and research and development. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $3,579,522 as compared to $5,481,380 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $1,901,858, or 34.7 %. The decrease was primarily as a result of the integration of 2021 Business Acquisitions that provided continued decreases in general and administrative costs in professional fees, relating mainly to audit and consulting fees, insurance, rental expenses due to closing of offices, less stock compensation costs offset by increased shareholder annual meeting costs. Research and Development For the three months ended March 31, 2023, research and development expenses were $1,582,343 as compared to $2,184,924 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $602,581, or 27.6 %. The decrease was primarily due to the integration of research and development teams that provide development of our new airframe, sensor and software technologies resulting in a reduction in our consultants and internal headcounts. Sales and Marketing For the three months ended March 31, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $977,875 as compared to $1,180,529 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $202,654, or 17.2 %. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease of travel, integration of sales and marketing teams that lead to a reduction of consulting expenses along with decrease in digital advertising spend as we look to attend in-person trade shows. 33 Table of Contents Other Expense, net For the three months ended March 31, 2023, other expense, net was $438,391 as compared to $114,631 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The change was primarily attributable to the promissory notes original issue discount of 4% and interest at 8% per annum issued in December 2022 along with net foreign currency transaction losses incurred by the drone (senseFly) business. Net Loss For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we incurred a net loss of $4,599,499 as compared to a net loss of $7,596,572 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $2,997,073, or 39.5 %. The overall decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to increase in sales and gross profit margins due to increased demand for new products and reduction in component costs along with integration of 2021 business acquisitions that lead to overall reduction in operating expenses. Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 as Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 As of March 31, 2023, cash on hand was $2,847,908, as compared to $4,349,837 as of December 31, 2022, a decrease of $1,501,929, or 34.5%. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in operations was $4,234,526, a decrease of $2,275,817, or 35.0 %, as compared to cash used of $6,510,343 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in cash used in operating activities was principally driven by the lower operating expenses which included significant lower inventory purchases and prepayments offset by higher accounts receivables, account payables and accrued expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $254,191, a decrease of $3,248,967, or 92.7 %, as compared to cash used of $3,503,158 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in cash used in our investing activities resulted mainly from the business acquisition of MicaSense and senseFly that occurred in 2022 and a decrease in platform and internal use software costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $3,000,000, a decrease of $1,614,091, or 35.0 %, as compared to cash provided of $4,614,091 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in cash provided by our financing activities was due to less sales of our Common stock through an at-the-market (ATM) offering and exercise of warrants in the prior year offset by the sale of Series F Preferred stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had working capital of $8,132,307. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we incurred a loss from operations of $4,161,108, a decrease of $3,320,833, or 44.4%, as compared to $7,481,941 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. While we have historically been successful in raising capital to meet its working capital needs, the ability to continue raising such capital to enable us to continue our growth is not guaranteed. We will require additional liquidity to continue its operations and meet its financial obligations over the next twelve months, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are evaluating strategies to obtain the required additional funding for future operations and the restructuring of operations to grow revenues and reduce expenses. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we raised $3,000,000 in equity and convertible debt financing transactions from the sale of Series F Preferred stock. 34 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 31, 2023, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. Inflation During the three months ended March 31, 2023, inflation has had a negative impact on the unmanned aerial vehicle systems industry, our customers, and our business globally. Specifically, our ability to access components, parts and labor needed to manufacture its proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been, and continue to be, impacted. If either the Company or any of its third parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting its ability to manufacture and assemble products. We expect inflation and its effects to continue to have a significant negative impact on our business. Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements In March 2022, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2022-02, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures (ASU 2022-02), which addresses areas identified by the FASB as part of its post-implementation review of its previously issued credit losses standard, ASU 2016-13, that introduced the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) model. ASU 2022-02 eliminates the accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings by creditors that have adopted the CECL model and enhances disclosure requirements for certain loan refinancings and restructurings made with borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. In addition, ASU 2022-02 requires a public business entity to disclose current-period gross write-offs for financing receivables and net investment in leases by year of origination in the vintage disclosures. ASU 2022-02 is effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, and for periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We adopted ASU 2022-02 effective January 1, 2023 and it did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Any other recently issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries and are not expected to a have a material impact on the our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 Table of Contents