ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of the Form 10-K as filed on March 31, 2021. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not significantly affected by inflation. Company Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle, the Company, us, we, our) through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors, and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. Today, our Company is earning distinction as a globally respected, industry leader offering best-in-class, full stack drone solutions to a wide range of industries, including energy, construction, agriculture and government. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience. Through participation on the U.S. Federal Aviation Administrations (FAA) Drone Advisory Committee and the FAAs BEYOND program, AgEagle is helping to establish entirely new rulemaking guidelines and regulations for the future of autonomous flight and the full integration of drones into the U.S. airspace. In the first half of 2019, the Company introduced HempOverview , a scalable, responsive and cost-effective Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) web- and map-based technology platform to support the operations of domestic industrial hemp programs for state and tribal nation departments of agriculture a solution that provides users with what the Company believes is the gold standard for regulatory oversight, operational assistance and reporting capabilities for the fast emerging industrial hemp industry. In January 2021, AgEagle acquired MicaSense, Inc. (MicaSense), based in Seattle, Washington. MicaSense has been at the forefront of advanced drone sensor development since its founding in 2014, having formed integration partnerships with several leading fixed wing and multirotor drone manufacturers. MicaSenses patented, high precision thermal and multispectral sensors serve the aerial mapping and analytics needs of the agriculture market. MicaSenses high performance proprietary products, including Altum , RedEdge-MX , RedEdge-MX Blue and Atlas Flight , have global distribution in over 70 countries. In April 2021, AgEagle acquired Measure Global, Inc. (Measure), a company founded in 2020 with business operations in Washington, D.C. and Austin, Texas. Serving a world class customer base, Measure enables its customers to realize the transformative benefits of drone technology through its Ground Control solution. Offered as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Ground Control is a cloud-based, plug-and-play operating system that empowers pilots and large enterprises with everything they need to operate drone fleets, fly autonomously, collaborate globally, visualize data, and integrate with existing business systems and processes. We intend to grow our business and preserve our leadership position by developing new drones, sensors and software and capturing a significant share of the global drone market. In addition, we expect to accelerate our growth and expansion through strategic acquisitions of companies offering distinct technological and competitive advantages and have defensible IP protection in place, if applicable. The Company is headquartered in Wichita, Kansas with business operations and several offices located throughout the United States. 34 Key Growth Strategies Our near- and mid-term growth strategies are centered on designing high performance, full stack drone solutions for customers in a broad range of industries, including energy, construction, agriculture and government. We aim to define a new world in which autonomous drones play a key role in making businesses more efficient, infrastructure safer and people more connected. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Delivering new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are the foundation of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to exceed the expectations of our customers and grow organically. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative drones, sensors and software that address applications and needs within our current target verticals, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Pursuing new business opportunities outside of our legacy focus on agriculture as we continue to expand and grow AgEagles full stack solutions. We intend to grow our business and preserve our leadership position by developing new drones, sensors and software and capturing a significant share of the global drone market. We are confident that the efficiencies and value which we have endeavored to provide our customers in the agriculture industry can be expanded to an increasing number of customers in the energy, construction and government verticals. Achieving greater market penetration of the U.S. industrial hemp industry. We are working to establish HempOverview software platform as the gold industry standard for hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement and commerce. AgEagle is leveraging best-in-class technology to provide a solution for state and tribal regulatory departments of agriculture, industrial hemp and hemp-derived CBD growers and processors. Growth through acquisition . Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically advanced companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative drone systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging drone industry sectors. Competitive Strengths AgEagle believes the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience. We believe our eleven years of experience in commercial drone design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. As of today, we develop and manufacture our products and software in the United States. Also, through our acquisitions of MicaSense and Measure, we have added people to the AgEagle team with dozens of years of experience operating in the global drone industry with unique insights into regulations and how to operationalize drones and scale their use for enterprise customers. 35 Advanced technology solutions allow users to remove the guesswork in effectively managing hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement, reporting and commerce. To our knowledge, there is no other SaaS solution available on the market today particularly one that has been developed by a proven Agtech company with the level of experience and expertise of AgEagle that provides the multi-faceted level of support and services that HempOverview offers to all stakeholders in the industry. AgEagle is a respected industry pioneer helping to establish entirely new standards of rule for the future of autonomous flight. Through our active advocacy efforts and direct involvement with government- and industry-sponsored agencies and organizations, AgEagles leadership team remains at the forefront of shaping the rulemaking guidelines and regulations that will make autonomous flight of unmanned aerial systems safe, reliable and accessible to more businesses worldwide. Through our wholly owned subsidiary MicaSense, AgEagle offers branded multispectral and thermal sensor solutions that provides users with unparalleled operational efficiency, collecting and outputting multiple data sets which provide actionable intelligence to its customers. From farmers to scientists to researchers, MicaSense sensors are relied upon for computer-aided analysis of data to detect crop disease, crop stress, field moisture conditions, weed populations and other factors. Through our wholly owned subsidiary Measure and its proprietary Ground Control aerial intelligence solution, AgEagle provides customers with the ability to capitalize on significant economic, safety and efficiency benefits made possible by drones used at scale. With end-to-end program management, user-friendly flight control, and in-platform data analysis, Ground Control helps our customers save thousands of hazardous man-hours and create millions of dollars in operational benefits. Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has evolved into a global pandemic. The coronavirus has spread to many regions of the world, including the United States. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business and operating results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. Should the coronavirus continue to spread, our business operations could be delayed or interrupted. For instance, we currently utilize third parties to, among other things, manufacture components and parts for the proprietary and contracted drones we produce, and to perform quality testing. We also manufacture and assemble products and perform various services at our manufacturing facility. If either we or any third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes are adversely impacted by restrictions resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, our supply chain may be disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. The spread of the coronavirus, which has caused a broad impact globally, including restrictions on travel and quarantine policies put into place by businesses and governments, may have a material economic effect on our business. While the potential economic impact brought on by and the duration of the pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, it has already caused, and is likely to result in further, significant disruptions of global financial markets, which may reduce our future ability to access capital either at all or on favorable terms. In addition, a recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event resulting from the spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our Common Stock. The ultimate impact of the current pandemic, or any other health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business or the global economy as a whole. However, these effects could have a material impact on our operations in the future. We will continue to monitor the situation closely. 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Please see Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements, which are included in