Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information contained in this Form 10-Q is intended to update the information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 13, 2020 (the Form 10-K) and presumes that readers have access to, and will have read, the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information contained in such Form 10-K. The following discussion and analysis also should be read together with our financial statements and the notes to the financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements appear in a number of places in this Report, including, without limitation, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and requirements that are difficult to predict or are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We strongly encourage investors to carefully read the factors described in our Form 10-K in the section entitled Risk Factors for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements. We assume no responsibility to update the forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The following should also be read in conjunction with the unaudited Financial Statements and notes thereto that appear elsewhere in this report. Except as otherwise indicated herein or as the context otherwise requires, references in this offering circular to we, us, our, Company, and AgEagle refer to AgEagle Aerial Systems, Inc., a Nevada corporation. Company Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle or the Company) designs, produces and supports technologically-advanced small, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs or drones). In addition, providing new utility to UAVs, we pioneer and innovate advanced aerial imaging data collection and analytics technologies capable of addressing the impending food and environmental sustainability crises that threaten our planet. Historically, our daily efforts have focused on delivering the tools and strategies necessary to define and implement commercial drone construction and delivery, along with sustainability and precision farming solutions that solve important problems confronting the global agricultural industry. We have spent ten years serving customers, covering more than two million acres in 50 countries monitoring 53 different crops. AgEagle remains intent on earning distinction as a trusted partner to clients seeking to adopt and support productive agricultural approaches to better farming practices which limit the impact on our natural resources, reduce reliance on inputs and materially increase crop yields and profits. In addition to UAV sales, in late 2018, we introduced a new drone-leasing program, alleviating farmers and agribusinesses from significant upfront costs associated with purchasing a drone, while also relieving them from ongoing drone maintenance and support requirements. Additionally, the new program provides the option of engaging a trained AgEagle pilot to operate the drone and manage the entire image collection process, creating a truly turnkey aerial imagery capture solution for its customers. In the first half of 2019, we introduced HempOverview , a scalable, responsive and cost-effective Software-as-a-Solution (SaaS) web- and map-based technology platform to support the operations of domestic industrial hemp programs for state and tribal nation departments of agriculture, growers and processors a solution that provides users with what we believe is the gold standard for regulatory oversight, operational assistance and reporting capabilities for the fast emerging industrial hemp industry. 33 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2019, AgEagle announced that it had begun to actively pursue expansion opportunities within the emerging Drone Logistics and Transportation market and revealed that it had received its first purchase orders from a major ecommerce company to manufacture and assemble UAVs designed to meet the critical specifications for drones that are meant to carry packaged goods in urban and suburban areas. Central to our long-term growth strategy, we will continue to identify opportunities to leverage our proprietary technological platform and industry expertise to penetrate new, high growth market sectors that may benefit from our advanced aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions. Research and development activities are integral to our business and we follow a disciplined approach to investing our resources to create new technologies and solutions. Our business is seasonal in nature and, as a result, our revenue and expenses and associated revenue trends fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Commercial Drone Package Delivery Over the past year, there has been a surge of prominent companies, including Alphabet (Google), FedEx, Intel, Qualcomm, Amazon, Target, Walmart, Alibaba, UPS, 7-Eleven, Uber and many others, actively developing commercial drone delivery service initiatives as part of their long-term strategic plans. These companies intend to leverage the latest in UAV technologies to deliver food, consumer products, medicines and other types of lightweight freight direct to consumers and businesses in the fastest, most cost efficient and environmentally responsible manner possible a practical alternative to costly auto transport. AgEagles proven expertise in manufacturing rugged, reliable and professional grade UAVs makes us a logical partner for designing, manufacturing and testing drone platforms in the fast growing package delivery market a market forecasted by Research and Markets will climb to $11.2 billion by 2022 and subsequently rise to $29.06 billion by 2027. The anticipated growth of the industry is expected to be largely fueled by the high usage of drones in the ecommerce industry for delivery of products in rural areas, where automotive transport vehicles cannot readily reach or where deliveries take longer time to arrive. In September 2019, we announced that we were actively pursuing expansion opportunities within the Drone Logistics and Transportation market, and reported that we had received our first purchase order from a major unnamed ecommerce company to manufacture and assemble UAVs designed to meet the critical specifications for drones that are meant to carry goods in urban and suburban areas. AgEagle is currently working in close collaboration with this new customer on its tethered test flight operations and ongoing development. In association with the initial purchase order, AgEagle recorded its first revenues in the second half of 2019 and had recognized additional revenues from the project in the first quarter of 2020. In the second quarter of 2020, we announced that we had received follow-on purchase orders from the ecommerce company client relating to the continued manufacture and assembly of drones used for the testing and refining of clients commercial drone small delivery vehicles, systems and operations currently in development. Due to the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting delivery delays of components ordered from certain suppliers for this project, revenues associated with these purchase orders will be reported in the third quarter, ending September 30, 2020. It is our belief that we will continue to perpetuate and enhance our relationship with this customer on a moving-forward basis. 34 Table of Contents Our Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Business Our first commercially available product was the AgEagle Classic, which was followed shortly thereafter by the RAPID System . As we improved and matured our product, we launched the RX-60 and subsequently our current UAV product, the RX-48 . The success AgEagle has achieved with its legacy products, which we believe has carried over into the continued improvement of the RX-60 and RX-48 , stems from AgEagles ability to invent and deliver advanced solutions utilizing its proprietary technologies and trade secrets that help farmers, agronomists and other precision agricultural professionals operate more effectively and efficiently. Our core technological capabilities, developed over five years of research and innovation, include a lightweight laminated shell that allows the UAV platform to perform under challenging flying conditions, a camera with a Near Infrared (NIR) filter, a rugged foot launcher ( RX-60 ), and high-end software that automates drone flights and provides geo-referenced data. All of AgEagles proprietary UAVs are electrically powered, weigh approximately six pounds fully loaded, are capable of flying over approximately 400 acres (roughly 60 minutes of airtime) per flight from their launch location, and are configured to carry a camera with an NIR filter that uses near infrared images to capture crop data. Our leadership believes that these characteristics make its UAVs well suited for providing a complete aerial view of a farmers field to help precisely identify crop health and field conditions faster than any other method available. Our UAVs were initially specifically designed to help farmers increase profits by pinpointing areas where nutrients or chemicals need to be applied, as opposed to traditional widespread land application processes, thus decreasing input costs, reducing the amount of chemicals applied and potentially increasing yields. AgEagles products were designed for busy agriculture professionals who do not have the time to process images on their computers, which some of its competitors require. The software can automatically take pictures from the camera, stitch the photos together through the cloud, and deliver a geo-referenced, high quality aerial map to the users desktop or tablet device using specialty precision agriculture software such as SST Software, SMS Software or most other agricultural software solutions. The result is a prescription or zone map that can then be used in a field computer that is typically found in a sprayer or applicator designed to drive through fields to precisely apply the amount of nutrients or chemicals required to continue or restore the production of healthy crops. In addition to UAV sales, in late 2018, AgEagle introduced a new drone-leasing program, alleviating farmers and agribusinesses from significant upfront costs associated with purchasing a drone, while also relieving them from ongoing drone maintenance and support requirements. Additionally, the new program provides the option of engaging a trained AgEagle pilot to operate the drone and manage the entire image collection process, creating a truly turnkey aerial imagery capture solution for our customers. HempOverview Platform With the passing of the 2018 Farm Bill in December 2018, industrial hemp is now recognized as an agricultural commodity, such as corn, wheat or soybeans. More specifically, the 2018 Farm Bill authorizes state departments of agriculture, including agencies representing the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any other territory or possession of the United States, and Indian tribal governments, to submit plans to the USDA applying for primary regulatory authority over the production of hemp in their respective state or tribal territory. 35 Table of Contents As one of the agriculture industrys leading pioneers of advanced aerial-image-based data collection and analytics solutions, AgEagle is intent on leveraging our expertise to champion the use of proven, advanced web- and map-based technologies as a means to streamline and ultimately standardize hemp cultivation in the United States. Growers need to be registered/permitted; crops need to be monitored and inspected; and enforcement operations must be established to ensure compliance with state and federal mandates. Through the introduction of HempOverview , AgEagle represents the first agriculture technology company to its knowledge to bring to market an advanced agtech solution that is designed to meet the unique complexities and vigorous oversight, compliance and enforcement demands of the emerging American hemp industry and the unique needs and demands of its key stakeholders. HempOverview is comprised of four modules: 1) Registration : secure, scalable software to handle all farmer and processer application and licensing matters. 2) Best Management Practices : iterative, intelligent data collection and analysis utilizing satellite imagery and advanced, proprietary algorithms to help farmers reduce input costs, avoid missteps, detect pest impacts and monitor water usage. 3) Oversight and Enforcement : integration of data management and satellite imagery to provide continuous monitoring of all hemp fields in the state, predict and respond to issues and assist in proper crop testing. 4) Reporting : generation of actionable reports for USDA requirements, legislative oversight and support of research institutions. In November, 2019, AgEagle announced that the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (FDACS) had chosen the HempOverview solution to manage its online application submission and registration process for hemp growers and their farms and hemp fields in the State of Florida for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. In addition, the Company has entered discussions with several other states across the nation, as well as with certain growers and processors, and expects to announce additional new HempOverview clients in 2020. HempOverview focuses on simultaneously collecting data, analyzing field-related problems and providing readily accessible analysis and reporting for achieving and sustaining end-to-end visibility and best management practices for the growing industrial and CBD hemp supply chain. FarmLens Platform Our FarmLens platform has benefitted us and our shareholders by developing important vertically integrated products and services with our drone-enabled software technologies. FarmLens is a subscription cloud analytics service that processes data, primarily collected with a drone, such as those produced by AgEagle, and makes such data actionable by farmers and agronomists. FarmLens is currently sold by AgEagle as a subscription service and offered either standalone or in a bundle with drone platforms manufactured by leading drone providers like AgEagle, DJI and senseFly. The FarmLens platform extends AgEagles reach as a business through key partnerships. Growth Strategy Moving forward, the Company intends to concentrate its growth strategies on three focused pursuits: 1) Contract Manufacturing: establishing AgEagle as the dominant commercial drone design, engineering, manufacturing, assembly and testing company in the United States with emphasis on quality; 2) Drone Solutions: establishing AgEagle as the worlds trusted source for turn-key drone delivery services and solutions; and 3) Ag Solutions: leveraging our reputation as one of the leading technology solutions providers to the Agriculture industry with best-in-class drones and data analytics for hemp and other commercial crops. 36 Table of Contents Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Achieving greater market penetration of the U.S. industrial hemp industry by working to establish HempOverview and other related products and services as the gold industry standard for hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement and commerce. AgEagle is and intends to remain at the leading edge of leveraging best-in-class technology to provide turnkey solutions for state and tribal regulatory departments of agriculture, industrial hemp and hemp-derived CBD growers and processors. At this time, AgEagle believes that it is the only company in the nation with extensive experience in agriculture that is effectively addressing the emerging needs and challenges of the domestic hemp cultivation industry through the application of advanced technology a key competitive differential that the Company hopes to capitalize on in the coming year. Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other complementary industries besides agriculture, including the Drone Logistics and Transportation market. We have begun actively exploring opportunities outside of traditional agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products and solutions we offer today and believe that these products and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. In addition to drone package deliveries, we believe that our solutions and services may also be well suited for the aerial imaging and data collection and analytics needs involved in land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue operations, among other industrial applications. Prior to the end of September 2020, we manufactured all of our proprietary and contracted products at our secure manufacturing facility in Neodesha, Kansas, which allows us to avoid many of the potential difficulties that may arise if our manufacturing facilities were otherwise located outside the U.S., which is of particular importance to those AgEagle customers who rely on confidentiality and protection of trade secrets in the development of their drone package delivery initiatives. In later September 2020, we began relocating our Neodesha-based manufacturing operations to a facility in Wichita, Kansas, providing us with ample room for the planned scaling of our contract manufacturing, assembly, design, engineering and testing business. Deliver new and innovative solutions for the agriculture and other emerging commercial drone markets. Our research and development efforts are the foundation of our Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. We believe that by investing in research and development, we can be a leader in delivering innovative products that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. 37 Table of Contents Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other industries besides agriculture and drone package delivery. The Company may investigate and pursue opportunities outside of agriculture and drone package delivery as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products, services and solutions we offer today and believe that these products, services and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture and emerging drone package industry. These industries have yet to be identified by the AgEagle team but may include verticals such as land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue, among others. Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has evolved into a global pandemic. The coronavirus has spread to many regions of the world, including the United States. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business and operating results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. Should the coronavirus continue to spread, our business operations could be delayed or interrupted. For instance, we currently utilize third parties to, among other things, manufacture components and parts for the proprietary and contracted drones we produce, and to perform quality testing. We also manufacture and assemble products and perform various services at our manufacturing facility. If either we or any third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes are adversely impacted by restrictions resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, our supply chain may be disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. The spread of the coronavirus, which has caused a broad impact globally, including restrictions on travel and quarantine policies put into place by businesses and governments, may have a material economic effect on our business. While the potential economic impact brought on by and the duration of the pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, it has already caused, and is likely to result in further, significant disruptions of global financial markets, which may reduce our future ability to access capital either at all or on favorable terms. In addition, a recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event resulting from the spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. The ultimate impact of the current pandemic, or any other health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business or the global economy as a whole. However, these effects could have a material impact on our operations in the future. We will continue to monitor the situation closely. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, in addition to complying with shelter at home mandates in those states affecting our employees, most of whom worked virtually from their homes, our supply chain was adversely impacted by the pandemic, causing material delays in the delivery of critical supply orders associated with timely fulfilling our obligations to our large ecommerce client. As a consequence, revenues originally expected to be reported in the second quarter 2020 will be reported in our third quarter 2020 results. 38 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. See Note 2 in the accompanying unaudited condense interim consolidated financial statements for a listing of our critical accounting policies. Results of Operations For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded revenues of $750,325 compared to revenues of $41,616 for the same period in 2019, a 1,703% increase. The increase for this quarter in comparison to the prior quarter was largely due to new revenues derived from follow-on purchase orders to manufacture and assemble drone related products that had been deferred due to vendor delays impacted by COVID-19 shut-downs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded revenues of $1,157,930 compared to revenues of $107,785 for the same period in 2019, a 974% increase. The increase was largely due to new revenues derived from follow-on purchase orders to manufacture and assemble drone delivery products designed to meet specific criteria for package delivery in urban and suburban area. In addition, revenue growth was also positively impacted by continued focus on expansion of our platforms, providing for aerial imaging and analytics solutions which serve new and emerging markets including registration, oversight and compliance of hemp fields by state departments of agriculture. For the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, cost of sales totaled $430,683 and $32,728, respectively, an increase of $397,955 or 1,216%. Costs of sales totaled $620,196 and $85,875, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, reflecting an increase in our cost of goods sold of 622% commensurate with the increase in sales. We also had gross profit of $319,642, or 43%, during the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to $8,888, or 21%, for the comparable period in 2019, resulting in an increase in our profit margin in the current period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, we had a gross profit of $537,734 or 46% and $21,910 or 20%, respectively, an increase in our profit margins of 2,354%. The primary factors contributing to the increase in our cost of sales and gross profit margin was due to the continued shift in mix of products and services we now offer customers in the new markets we serve that have resulted in higher margin for our sales. 39 Table of Contents We recorded total operating expenses of $897,379 during the three months ended September 30, 2020, a 57% increase as compared to operating expenses of $571,926 in the same period of 2019. Our operating expenses are comprised of general and administrative costs, professional fees and selling expenses. General and administrative expenses totaled $626,605 in the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to $396,432 in 2019, an increase of 58%. The increase was due primarily to stock compensation expenses, investor relations costs, payments to directors as compensation fees, and additional payroll and bonus payments made to employees. Professional fees also increased 67% as we had $254,532 of expenses for the current period versus $152,192 in the comparable prior period. The increase was mainly due to additional consulting service fees related to fractional CTO services, an operational consultant and business development consultants required to expand our growth opportunities along with incremental legal expenses as a result of our capital raising activities. Lastly, included in operating expenses was selling costs that decreased 30% to $16,242 versus $23,302 in the prior comparable period due to less travel and conference expenses for the purposes of new business development as a result of COVID-19. We recorded total operating expenses of $2,774,113 and $1,889,214, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, a 47% increase. Our operating expenses are comprised of general and administrative costs, professional fees and selling expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, we recorded $1,782,926 and $1,305,221 in general and administrative expenses, respectively, resulting in a 37% increase. The increase is mainly due to recruiting fees associated with search for new CEO, costs for public relations services, payments to directors as compensation fees, additional payroll and bonus payments made to employees, stock compensation expenses, and investor relations costs. Professional fees also increased 80% as we had $958,436 of expenses for the current period versus $531,885 in the comparable prior period. The increase was mainly due to additional consulting service fees related to fractional CTO services, an operational consultant and business development consultants required to expand our growth opportunities along with incremental legal expenses as a result of our capital raising activities. Lastly, included in operating expenses was selling costs that decreased 37% to $32,751 versus $52,108 in the prior years comparable period due to less travel and conference expenses for the purposes of new business development as a result of COVID-19. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 we recorded a loss on disposal of fixed assets due to our moving to Wichita of $594. There were no other expenses recorded for the same period during 2019. Interest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $275 related to the Paycheck Protection Plan (PPP) loan, compared to $0 during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and $501for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Our net loss was $578,606 and $563,038 for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively and $2,237,248 and $1,867,805, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Overall, the increase in net loss is due to an increase in our operating costs as a result of the shifts in our sales and our business development growth strategies. We are in the process of continuing to address these shifts by developing new platforms, products and services that support prevailing growth opportunities in the domestic industrial hemp market, sustainable agriculture market and the growing drone-enabled package delivery business. For the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our net loss available to common stockholders decrease to $578,606 from $603,927, a decrease of 4%. Our net loss available to common stockholders for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 was $11,348,575 and $1,989,138, respectively. The increase is due to non-cash charges stemming from required deemed dividend accounting for modifications to certain preferred stock, redemption of preferred stock and the trigger of Down Round provisions on certain preferred stock and warrants. 40 Table of Contents Cash Flows September 30, 2020 Compared to December 31, 2019 Cash on hand was $24,693,417 at September 30, 2020 compared to the $717,997 at December 31, 2019, an increase of $23,975,420. Cash used in operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $(1,442,919) compared to $(1,121,260) of cash used in operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in cash used in operating activities was driven largely by payments received from revenue that was initially recorded as a contract liability offset by additional accounts payables related to purchases of inventories associated with this project. There was $(70,086) cash used in our investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to $(57,715) used in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in cash used in our investing activities resulted from purchases of property and equipment and building improvements for the new leased warehouse. Cash provided in financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $25,488,425 compared to cash used in financing activities of $(40,998) as of September 30, 2019. The increase in cash provided by our financing activities was due to sales of our preferred stock, common stock, warrants and promissory note proceeds as part of Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Acts Paycheck Protection Plan (PPP) . Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2020, we had working capital of $24,535,292 and a loss from operations of $2,237,248 for the period then ended. While there can be no guarantees, we believe cash on hand, in connection with cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund operations for the next year of operations. In addition, we intend to pursue other opportunities of financing with outside investors. On April 7, 2020, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement ( the Purchase Agreement)with an institutional investor, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized 1,050 shares of a newly designated series of preferred stock, the Series E Convertible Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock was convertible at $0.25 per share into an aggregate of 4,200,000 shares of the common stock, par value $0.001 per share. The purchase price for the Preferred Stock was $1,050,000 of which we received net proceeds of $1,010,000. The Preferred Stock has liquidation rights senior to the common stock, but pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock and the Series D Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock has no voting rights. The conversion price adjusts for stock splits and combinations and is subject to anti-dilution protection for subsequent equity issuances until such time as no shares of Series E Preferred Stock are outstanding. The Certificate of Designation of the Series E Convertible Preferred Stock was filed with the State of Nevada on April 2, 2020.We also entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, granting registration rights to the Purchaser with respect to the Conversion Shares and common stock underlying warrants currently owned by the Purchaser. On May 11, 2020, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with an institutional investor and existing Company shareholder (the Investor) pursuant to which we agreed to sell to the Investor in a registered direct offering 2,400,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001, and pre-funded warrants (the Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase up to 3,260,377 shares of common stock, for gross proceeds of approximately $6 million and net proceeds of $5,950,010 after issuance costs. The purchase price for each share of common stock was $1.06 and the purchase price for each Pre-Funded Warrant was $1.05999. The exercise price for each Warrant was $0.001. Net proceeds from the sale were used to repurchase 262 shares of our Series E Preferred Stock, convertible into 1,048,000 shares of common stock currently held by the Investor at a repurchase price of $1.06 per share of common stock. We expect to use the balance for working capital and general corporate purposes. 41 Table of Contents Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we agreed to certain restrictions on future stock offerings, including that during the 60-day period following the closing, where we will not issue (or enter into any agreement to issue) any shares of common Stock or common Stock equivalents, subject to certain exceptions. The exercise price of the Warrants and the shares of the common stock issuable upon the exercise thereof were subject to adjustment in the event of any stock dividends and splits, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reorganization or similar transaction, as described in the Warrants, and were exercisable on a cashless basis in certain circumstances. On June 24, 2020, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with an Investor pursuant to which we agreed to sell to the Investor in a registered direct offering 4,407,400 shares of common stock, par value $0.001, pre-funded warrants to purchase up to 1,956,236 shares of common stock, and warrants to purchase up to 2,455,476 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.35 per share (the Warrants), for gross proceeds of $7 million (which includes subsequent payment of the exercise price of the Pre-Funded Warrants in the amount of $1,956.24). Upon exercise of the Warrants in full by the Investor, we will receive additional gross proceeds of $3,314,892.60. The shares of common stock underlying the Pre-Funded Warrants and the Warrants are referred to as Warrant Shares. The purchase price for each share of common Stock is $1.10 and the purchase price for each Pre-Funded Warrant is $1.099. The exercise price for each Pre-Funded Warrant is $0.001. Net proceeds from the sale will be used for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. The Shares, Pre-funded Warrants, Warrants and Warrant Shares are being offered by us pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-239157), which was declared effective on June 19, 2020. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we agreed to certain restrictions on future stock offerings, including that during the 75-day period following the closing, we will not issue (or enter into any agreement to issue) any shares of common stock or common stock equivalents, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consolidated closing price on the trading market on which our common stock is traded at the time is greater than $1.90 (adjusted for any subsequent stock splits or similar capital adjustments) for five consecutive trading days, we may issue such securities at not less than $1.90 per common stock Equivalent. The Investor has a right from the date of the Purchase Agreement until December 31, 2020 to participate in a subsequent financing by us or any of its Subsidiaries of common stock or common stock Equivalents for cash consideration, indebtedness or a combination of units thereof (a Subsequent Financing), in an amount equal to 50% of the Subsequent Financing on the same terms, conditions and price provided for in the Subsequent Financing. The exercise price of the Prefunded Warrants and the Warrants and the number of Warrant Shares issuable upon the exercise thereof will be subject to adjustment in the event of any stock dividends and splits, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reorganization or similar transaction, as described in the Prefunded Warrants and the Warrants. The Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis only in the event there is no effective registration statement registering, or the prospectus contained therein is not available for the sale of the shares underlying the Warrants. The Pre-Funded Warrants allow for cashless exercise at any time. The Pre-Funded Warrants and the Warrants each contain a beneficial ownership limitation, such that none of such Pre-Funded Warrants nor the Warrants may be exercised, if, at the time of such exercise, the holder would become the beneficial owner of more than 9.99% of our outstanding shares of common stock following the exercise of such Pre-Funded Warrant or Warrant. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 we received $2,632,500 in additional gross proceeds associated with exercise of the Warrant Shares. As of September 30, 2020, 505,476 Warrant Shares at an exercise price of $1.35 per share remain outstanding. 42 Table of Contents On August 4, 2020, we and an institutional investor and existing Company shareholder entered into a Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we agreed to sell to the Investor in a registered direct offering 3,335,705 shares of common stock, par value $0.001, and warrants to purchase up to 2,516,778 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $3.30 per share, for gross proceeds of approximately $10 million. Upon exercise of the Warrants in full by the Investor, we would receive additional gross proceeds of approximately $8,305,367. The purchase price for each share of Common Stock was $2.98. Net proceeds from the sale will be used for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. The shares and the warrant were being offered by us pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-239157), which was declared effective on June 19, 2020. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to certain restrictions on future stock offerings, including that during the 75-day period following the closing, we will not issue (or enter into any agreement to issue) any shares of Common Stock or Common Stock equivalents, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consolidated closing price on the trading market on which the our Common Stock is traded at the time is greater than $5.00 (adjusted for any subsequent stock splits or similar capital adjustments) for ten consecutive trading days, we may issue such securities at not less than $5.00 per Common Stock Equivalent. In addition, our executive officers and directors agreed that they shall not sell (or hedge in any manner) any of their shares of the Common Stock for a period ending September 7, 2020. The Investor has a right from the date of the Purchase Agreement until December 31, 2020, to participate in a subsequent financing by us or any of our Subsidiaries of Common Stock or Common Stock Equivalents for cash consideration, indebtedness or a combination of units thereof (a Subsequent Financing), in an amount equal to 50% of the Subsequent Financing on the same terms, conditions and price provided for in the Subsequent Financing. The exercise price of the Warrants and the number of Warrant Shares issuable upon the exercise thereof will be subject to adjustment in the event of any stock dividends and splits, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reorganization or similar transaction, as described in the Warrants. The Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis only in the event there is no effective registration statement registering, or the prospectus contained therein is not available for the sale of the shares underlying the Warrants. The Warrants contain a beneficial ownership limitation, such that none of such Warrants may be exercised, if, at the time of such exercise, the holder would become the beneficial owner of more than 9.99% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock following the exercise of such Warrant. The Warrant is for a ten-month term and is not exercisable for the first six months. Our primary need for liquidity is to fund working capital requirements of our business, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service and for general corporate purposes. To date, our primary source of liquidity is funds generated by financing activities and from private placements. Our ability to fund our operations, to make planned capital expenditures, to make planned acquisitions, to make scheduled debt payments, and to repay or refinance indebtedness depends on our future operating performance and cash flows, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. 43 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At September 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. Contractual Obligations We have no material contractual obligations. Inflation Our opinion is that inflation has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our operations. Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements There were various updates recently issued, most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries and are not expected to a have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 44 Table of Contents