ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not materially affected by inflation. Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle or the Company), through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, is actively engaged in designing and delivering best-in-class drones, sensors and software that solve important problems for our customers. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-winged drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. Today, the Company is earning distinction as a globally respected industry leader offering best-in-class, autonomous unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to a wide range of industry verticals, including energy/utilities, infrastructure, agriculture and government, among others. The Companys shift and expansion from solely manufacturing fixed-wing farm drones in 2018, to offering what the Company believes is one of the industrys best fixed-wing, full-stack drone solutions, culminated in 2021 when AgEagle acquired three market-leading companies engaged in producing UAS airframes, sensors and software for commercial and government use. In addition to a robust portfolio of proprietary, connected hardware and software products, an established global network of nearly 200 UAS resellers, and enterprise customers worldwide, these acquisitions also brought AgEagle a highly valuable workforce comprised largely of experienced engineers and technologists with deep expertise in the fields of robotics, automation, manufacturing and data science. AgEagle is led by a proven management team with years of drone industry experience. In view of AgEagles CEOs appointment to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administrations (FAA) Advanced Aviation Advisory Committee and Unmanned Aircraft Systems Beyond Visual Line of Sight Aviation Rulemaking Committee , in addition to, and the Companys participation in the FAAs BEYOND program, AgEagle has played a hands-on role in helping to establish necessary rulemaking guidelines and regulations for the future of autonomous flight and the full integration of drones into the U.S. airspace. The Company is headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, where it also houses its U.S. manufacturing operations. In addition, AgEagle has business operations in Austin, Texas; Lausanne, Switzerland; Raleigh, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and Washington, D.C. Key Growth Strategies We intend to materially grow our business by leveraging our proprietary, best-in-class, full-stack drone solutions, industry influence and deep pool of talent with specialized expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science to achieve greater penetration of the global UAS industry with near-term emphasis on capturing larger market share of the agriculture, energy/utilities, infrastructure and government/military verticals. We expect to accomplish this goal by first bringing three core values to life in our day-to-day operations and aligning them with our efforts to earn the trust and continued business of our customers and industry partners: 29 1. Curiosity this pushes us to find value where others arent looking. It inspires us to see around corners for our customers, understanding the problems they currently face or will be facing in the future, and delivering them solutions best suited for their unique needs. 2. Passion this fuels our obsession with excellence, our desire to try the difficult things and tackle big problems, and our commitment to meet our customers needs and then surpass them. 3. Integrity this is not optional or situational at AgEagle it is the foundation for everything we do, even when no one is watching. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Establish three centers of excellence with respective expertise in UAS software, sensors and airframes. These centers of excellence will cross pollinate ideas, industry insights and skillsets to yield intelligent autonomous solutions that fully leverage AgEagles experienced teams specialized knowledge and know-how in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data science. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are critical building blocks of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative autonomous systems and solutions that address market needs beyond our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Growth through acquisition. Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically advanced UAS companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative autonomous flight systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging markets that can benefit from innovations in artificial intelligence-enabled robotics and data capture and analytics. Competitive Strengths AgEagle believes the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience We believe our decade of experience in commercial UAS design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. In fact, approximately 70% of our Companys global workforce is comprised of engineers and data scientists with deep experience and expertise in robotics, automation, custom manufacturing and data analytics. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our Wichita-based and Swiss manufacturing operations. AgEagle is more than just customer- and product-centric, we are obsessed with innovation and knowing the needs of our customers before they do We are focused on capitalizing on our specialized expertise in innovating and commercializing advanced drone, sensor and software technologies to provide our existing and future customers with autonomous robotic solutions that meet the highest possible safety and operational standards and fit their specific business needs. We have established three Centers of Excellence that our leadership has challenged to cross-pollinate ideas, industry insights and interdisciplinary skillsets to generate intelligent autonomous solutions that efficiently leverage our expertise in robotics, automation and manufacturing to solve problems for our customers, irrespective of the industry sector in which they may operate. We offer market-tested drones, sensors and software solutions that have earned the longstanding trust and fidelity of customers worldwide through successful execution of our acquisition strategy in 2021, AgEagle is now delivering a unified line of industry trusted drones, sensors and software that have been vigorously tested and consistently proven across multiple industry verticals and use cases. For instance, our line of eBee fixed wing drones, pioneered by senseFly, have flown more than one million flights over the past decade serving customers spanning surveying and mapping; engineering and construction; military/defense; mining, quarries and aggregates; agriculture humanitarian aid and environmental monitoring, among just a few. Featured in over 100 research publications globally, advanced sensor innovations developed and commercialized by MicaSense, have served to forge new industry standards for high performance, high resolution, thermal and multispectral imaging for commercial drone applications in agriculture, plant research, land management and forestry. In addition, we have championed the development of end-to-end software solutions which power autonomous flight and deliver actionable, contextual data and analytics for a whos who of Fortune 500 companies, government agencies and a wide range of businesses in agriculture, energy and utilities, construction and other industry sectors. 30 Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has evolved into a global pandemic. The coronavirus has spread to many regions of the world, including the United States. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business and operating results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. The spread of the coronavirus, which has caused a broad impact globally, including restrictions on travel and quarantine policies put into place by businesses and governments, may have a material economic effect on our business. While the potential economic impact brought on by and the duration of the pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, it has already caused, and is likely to result in further, significant disruptions of global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital either at all or on favorable terms. In addition, a recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event resulting from the spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our Common Stock. In addition, as a result of the pandemic, our ability to access components and parts needed in order to manufacture our proprietary drones and sensors, and to perform quality testing have been impacted. If either we or any third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes continue to be adversely impacted by restrictions resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, our supply chain may be further disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. The ultimate impact of the current pandemic, or any other health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business or the global economy as a whole. However, these effects can have a material impact on our operations. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our supply chain was adversely impacted by the pandemic, causing material delays in the delivery of critical supply orders associated with timely fulfilling our obligations to our large ecommerce client. As a consequence, significant inventory purchases were made in 2021 in order to secure the manufacturing of our products in an effort to prevent delays in 2022. This is an on-going situation that we continue to monitor closely. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in