Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information contained in this Form 10-Q is intended to update the information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 13, 2020 (the Form 10-K) and presumes that readers have access to, and will have read, the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information contained in such Form 10-K. The following discussion and analysis also should be read together with our financial statements and the notes to the financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements appear in a number of places in this Report, including, without limitation, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and requirements that are difficult to predict or are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We strongly encourage investors to carefully read the factors described in our Form 10-K in the section entitled Risk Factors for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements. We assume no responsibility to update the forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The following should also be read in conjunction with the unaudited Financial Statements and notes thereto that appear elsewhere in this report. Except as otherwise indicated herein or as the context otherwise requires, references in this offering circular to we, us, our, Company, and AgEagle refer to AgEagle Aerial Systems, Inc., a Nevada corporation. Company Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle or the Company) designs, produces and supports technologically-advanced small, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs or drones). In addition, providing new utility to UAVs, the Company pioneers and innovates advanced aerial imaging data collection and analytics technologies capable of addressing the impending food and environmental sustainability crises that threaten our planet. Historically, the Companys daily efforts have focused on delivering the tools and strategies necessary to define and implement commercial drone construction and delivery, along with sustainability and precision farming solutions that solve important problems confronting the global agricultural industry. In fact, through its recent acquisition, the Company has spent eight years serving customers, covering more than two million acres in 50 countries monitoring 53 different crops. AgEagle remains intent on earning distinction as a trusted partner to clients seeking to adopt and support productive agricultural approaches to better farming practices which limit the impact on our natural resources, reduce reliance on inputs and materially increase crop yields and profits. In early 2019, AgEagle further expanded its marketing efforts to provide for the introduction of ParkView , its proprietary aerial imagery and data analytics platform, designed to support municipal, state and federal agencies charged with assessing and supporting sustainability initiatives involving public parks and recreation areas, also referred to as urban green spaces. In the first half of 2019, the Company introduced HempOverview , a scalable, responsive and cost-effective Software-as-a-Solution (SaaS) web- and map-based technology platform to support the operations of domestic industrial hemp programs for state and tribal nation departments of agriculture, growers and processors a solution that provides users with what the Company believes is the gold standard for regulatory oversight, operational assistance and reporting capabilities for the fast emerging industrial hemp industry. The Company also designs, produces, distributes and supports technologically advanced small UAVs or drones that AgEagle offers for commercial sale to the precision agriculture industry. In addition to UAV sales, in late 2018, the Company introduced a new drone-leasing program, alleviating farmers and agribusinesses from significant upfront costs associated with purchasing a drone, while also relieving them from ongoing drone maintenance and support requirements. Additionally, the new program provides the option of engaging a trained AgEagle pilot to operate the drone and manage the entire image collection process, creating a truly turnkey aerial imagery capture solution for its customers. 26 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2019, AgEagle announced that it had begun to actively pursue expansion opportunities within the emerging Drone Logistics and Transportation market and revealed that it had received its first purchase orders from a major ecommerce company to manufacture and assemble UAVs designed to meet the critical specifications for drones that are meant to carry packaged goods in urban and suburban areas. Central to the Companys long-term growth strategy, AgEagle will continue to identify opportunities to leverage its proprietary technological platform and industry expertise to penetrate new, high growth market sectors that may benefit from the Companys advanced aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions. Research and development activities are integral to our business and we follow a disciplined approach to investing our resources to create new technologies and solutions. Our business is seasonal in nature and, as a result, our revenue and expenses and associated revenue trends fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Business Our first commercially available product was the AgEagle Classic, which was followed shortly thereafter by the RAPID System . As we improved and matured our product, we launched the RX-60 and subsequently our current UAV product, the RX-48 . The success AgEagle has achieved with its legacy products, which the Company believes has carried over into the continued improvement of the RX-60 and RX-48 , stems from AgEagles ability to invent and deliver advanced solutions utilizing its proprietary technologies and trade secrets that help farmers, agronomists and other precision agricultural professionals operate more effectively and efficiently. The Companys core technological capabilities, developed over five years of research and innovation, include a lightweight laminated shell that allows the UAV platform to perform under challenging flying conditions, a camera with a Near Infrared (NIR) filter, a rugged foot launcher ( RX-60 ), and high-end software that automates drone flights and provides geo-referenced data. All of AgEagles proprietary UAVs are electrically powered, weigh approximately six pounds fully loaded, are capable of flying over approximately 400 acres (roughly 60 minutes of airtime) per flight from their launch location, and are configured to carry a camera with an NIR filter that uses near infrared images to capture crop data. The Companys leadership believes that these characteristics make its UAVs well suited for providing a complete aerial view of a farmers field to help precisely identify crop health and field conditions faster than any other method available. The Companys UAVs were initially specifically designed to help farmers increase profits by pinpointing areas where nutrients or chemicals need to be applied, as opposed to traditional widespread land application processes, thus decreasing input costs, reducing the amount of chemicals applied and potentially increasing yields. AgEagles products were designed for busy agriculture professionals who do not have the time to process images on their computers, which some of its competitors require. The software can automatically take pictures from the camera, stitch the photos together through the cloud, and deliver a geo-referenced, high quality aerial map to the users desktop or tablet device using specialty precision agriculture software such as SST Software, SMS Software or most other agricultural software solutions. The result is a prescription or zone map that can then be used in a field computer that is typically found in a sprayer or applicator designed to drive through fields to precisely apply the amount of nutrients or chemicals required to continue or restore the production of healthy crops. In addition to UAV sales, in late 2018, AgEagle introduced a new drone-leasing program, alleviating farmers and agribusinesses from significant upfront costs associated with purchasing a drone, while also relieving them from ongoing drone maintenance and support requirements. Additionally, the new program provides the option of engaging a trained AgEagle pilot to operate the drone and manage the entire image collection process, creating a truly turnkey aerial imagery capture solution for the Companys customers. Commercial Drone Package Delivery Over the past year, there has been a surge of prominent companies, including Alphabet (Google), FedEx, Intel, Qualcomm, Amazon, Target, Walmart, Alibaba, UPS, 7-Eleven, Uber and many others, actively developing commercial drone delivery service initiatives as part of their long-term strategic plans. These companies intend to leverage the latest in UAV technologies to deliver food, consumer products, medicines and other types of lightweight freight direct to consumers and businesses in the fastest, most cost efficient and environmentally responsible manner possible a practical alternative to costly auto transport. 27 Table of Contents AgEagles proven expertise in manufacturing rugged, reliable and professional grade UAVs makes the Company a logical partner for designing, manufacturing and testing drone platforms in the fast growing package delivery market a market forecasted by ResearchandMarkets will climb to $11.2 billion by 2022 and subsequently rise to $29.06 billion by 2027. The anticipated growth of the industry is expected to be largely fueled by the high usage of drones in the ecommerce industry for delivery of products in rural areas, where automotive transport vehicles cannot readily reach or where deliveries take longer time to arrive. In September 2019, the Company announced that it was actively pursuing expansion opportunities within the Drone Logistics and Transportation market, and reported that it had received its first purchase order from a major unnamed ecommerce company to manufacture and assemble UAVs designed to meet the critical specifications for drones that are meant to carry goods in urban and suburban areas. AgEagle is currently working in close collaboration with this new customer on its tethered test flight operations and ongoing development. In association with the initial purchase order, AgEagle recorded its first revenues in the second half of 2019 and had recognized additional revenues from the project in the first quarter of 2020. Subsequent to the end of the first quarter 2020, the Company announced that it had received follow-on purchase orders from the ecommerce company client relating to the continued manufacture and assembly of drones used for the testing and refining of clients commercial drone small delivery vehicles, systems and operations currently in development. HempOverview Platform With the passing of the 2018 Farm Bill in December 2018, industrial hemp is now recognized as an agricultural commodity, such as corn, wheat or soybeans. More specifically, the 2018 Farm Bill authorizes state departments of agriculture, including agencies representing the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any other territory or possession of the United States, and Indian tribal governments, to submit plans to the USDA applying for primary regulatory authority over the production of hemp in their respective state or tribal territory. As one of the agriculture industrys leading pioneers of advanced aerial-image-based data collection and analytics solutions, AgEagle is intent on leveraging our expertise to champion the use of proven, advanced web- and map-based technologies as a means to streamline and ultimately standardize hemp cultivation in the United States. Growers need to be registered/permitted; crops need to be monitored and inspected; and enforcement operations must be established to ensure compliance with state and federal mandates. Through the introduction of HempOverview , AgEagle represents the first agriculture technology company to its knowledge to bring to market an advanced agtech solution that is designed to meet the unique complexities and vigorous oversight, compliance and enforcement demands of the emerging American hemp industry and the unique needs and demands of its key stakeholders. HempOverview is comprised of four modules: 1) Registration : secure, scalable software to handle all farmer and processer application and licensing matters. 2) Best Management Practices : iterative, intelligent data collection and analysis utilizing satellite imagery and advanced, proprietary algorithms to help farmers reduce input costs, avoid missteps, detect pest impacts and monitor water usage. 3) Oversight and Enforcement : integration of data management and satellite imagery to provide continuous monitoring of all hemp fields in the state, predict and respond to issues and assist in proper crop testing. 4) Reporting : generation of actionable reports for USDA requirements, legislative oversight and support of research institutions. 28 Table of Contents In November, 2019, AgEagle announced that the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (FDACS) has chosen the HempOverview solution to manage its online application submission and registration process for hemp growers and their farms and hemp fields in the State of Florida for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. In addition, the Company has entered discussions with several other states across the nation, as well as with certain growers and processors, and expects to announce additional new HempOverview clients in 2020. HempOverview focuses on simultaneously collecting data, analyzing field-related problems and providing readily accessible analysis and reporting for achieving and sustaining end-to-end visibility and best management practices for the growing industrial and CBD hemp supply chain. FarmLens Platform Our FarmLens. platform has benefitted us and our shareholders by developing important vertically integrated products and services with our drone-enabled software technologies. FarmLens is a subscription cloud analytics service that processes data, primarily collected with a drone, such as those produced by AgEagle, and makes such data actionable by farmers and agronomists. FarmLens is currently sold by AgEagle as a subscription service and offered either standalone or in a bundle with drone platforms manufactured by leading drone providers like AgEagle, DJI and senseFly. The FarmLens platform extends AgEagles reach as a business through key partnerships. ParkView Platform Leveraging the underlying imaging technology and robust analytics capabilities of AgEagles FarmLens platform, AgEagle announced the formal market introduction of its ParkView solution in March 2019. ParkView is a proprietary aerial imagery and data analytics platform designed specifically for assessing and supporting sustainability initiatives involving municipal, state and federal public parks and recreation areas. The Company further announced that it won its first ParkView customer with the signing of Denver Parks and Recreation (DPR) in Denver, Colorado. DPR will utilize ParkView to better inform vegetative maintenance and natural resource preservation for its green infrastructure, comprising more than 6,000 acres of public green space within the city limits. AgEagles staff was also contracted to provide DPR with in-depth training on best management practices for UAV operations in a municipal setting. Research has shown that urban green infrastructure can materially improve water quality and conservation, attract investment, revive distressed neighborhoods, encourage redevelopment and provide outdoor recreational opportunities for cities of all scope and sizes worldwide, thus effectively helping to align social, economic, public health and environmental goals. Growth Strategy We intend to grow our business by achieving greater market penetration of the growing precision agriculture marketplace; by promoting our new service targeting the sustainable agriculture marketplace for the 2020 growing season; and by creating new, easier to use and higher value products that position AgEagle as a leading innovator and trusted solutions provider in high growth markets where advanced aerial imaging and data capture and analytics technologies can be used to achieve specific business and sustainability objectives. Currently, our management is actively exploring new vertical expansion opportunities in other industries outside of agriculture and its related areas, including drone-enabled package delivery. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Achieving greater market penetration of the U.S. industrial hemp industry by working to establish HempOverview and other related products and services as the gold industry standard for hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement and commerce. AgEagle is and intends to remain at the leading edge of leveraging best-in-class technology to provide turnkey solutions for state and tribal regulatory departments of agriculture, industrial hemp and hemp-derived CBD growers and processors. At this time, AgEagle believes that it is the only company in the nation with extensive experience in agriculture that is effectively addressing the emerging needs and challenges of the domestic hemp cultivation industry through the application of advanced technology a key competitive differential that the Company hopes to capitalize on in the coming year. 29 Table of Contents Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other complementary industries besides agriculture, including the Drone Logistics and Transportation market. We have begun actively exploring opportunities outside of traditional agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products and solutions we offer today and believe that these products and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. In addition to drone package deliveries, we believe that our solutions and services may also be well suited for the aerial imaging and data collection and analytics needs involved in land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue operations, among other industrial applications. As of today, we manufacture all of our proprietary and contracted products at our secure manufacturing facility in Neodesha, Kansas, which allows us to avoid many of the potential difficulties that may arise if our manufacturing facilities were otherwise located outside the U.S., which is of particular importance to those AgEagle customers who rely on confidentiality and protection of trade secrets in the development of their drone package delivery initiatives. Deliver new and innovative solutions in the precision agriculture space. Our research and development efforts are the foundation of our Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy our customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. We believe that by investing in research and development, we can be a leader in delivering innovative products that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Work with municipal, state and federal public parks and recreations agencies to adopt ParkView as a preferred solution for assessing and supporting sustainability initiatives for urban green spaces. With the signing of Denver Parks and Recreation in Denver, Colorado, AgEagle now has a client who is benefitting from the utilization of ParkView to better inform vegetative maintenance and natural resource preservation of its green infrastructure, comprising more than 6,000 acres of public green space within the city limits. We intend to market our ParkView platform to other prospective U.S. city, state and federal agencies. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are the foundation of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy the Companys customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative products that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Pursue the expansion of the AgEagle platform of products and solutions into other industries besides agriculture. The Company may investigate and pursue opportunities outside of agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV products and solutions we offer today and believe that these products and solutions could provide other industries the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. These industries have yet to be identified by the AgEagle team but may include verticals such as land surveying and scanning, insurance, inspections and search and rescue. 30 Table of Contents Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has evolved into a global pandemic. The coronavirus has spread to many regions of the world, including the United States. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business and operating results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. Should the coronavirus continue to spread, our business operations could be delayed or interrupted. For instance, we currently utilize third parties to, among other things, manufacture components and parts for the proprietary and contracted drones we produce, and to perform quality testing. We also manufacture and assemble products and perform various services at our manufacturing facility. If either we or any third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes are adversely impacted by restrictions resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, our supply chain may be disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. The spread of the coronavirus, which has caused a broad impact globally, including restrictions on travel and quarantine policies put into place by businesses and governments, may have a material economic effect on our business. While the potential economic impact brought on by and the duration of the pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, it has already caused, and is likely to result in further, significant disruptions of global financial markets, which may reduce our future ability to access capital either at all or on favorable terms. In addition, a recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event resulting from the spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our Common Stock. The ultimate impact of the current pandemic, or any other health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business or the global economy as a whole. However, these effects could have a material impact on our operations in the future. We will continue to monitor the situation closely. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, aside from complying with shelter at home mandates in those states affecting our employees, most of whom worked virtually from their homes, it is our belief that our financial performance and business operations were not materially impacted by the virus. Critical Accounting Policies Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. See Note 2 in the accompanying unaudited condense interim consolidated financial statements for a listing of our critical accounting policies. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded revenues of $391,280 compared to revenues of $45,993 for the same period in 2019, a 751% increase. The increase was largely due to new revenues derived from purchase orders to manufacture and assemble drones and related delivery products designed to meet specific criteria for package delivery in urban and suburban area. Revenue growth was also positively impacted by continued focus on expansion of our platform, providing for aerial imaging and analytics solutions which serve new and emerging markets including registration, oversight and compliance of hemp fields by state departments of agriculture. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cost of sales totaled $174,483 a 414% increase as compared to $33,948 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. We also had gross profit of $216,797, or 55%, during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $12,045, or 26%, for the comparable period in 2019, resulting in an increase in our profit margin in the current period. The primary factors contributing to the increase in our cost of sales and gross profit margin was due to the continued shift in mix of products and services we now offer customers in the new markets we serve. We recorded total operating expenses of $620,070 during the three months ended March 31, 2020, a 7.5% increase as compared to operating expenses of $577,048 in the same period of 2019. Our operating expenses are comprised of general and administrative costs, professional fee and selling costs. General and administrative expenses totaled $445,531 in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $474,902 in 2019, a decrease of 6.2%. The decrease was due primarily to an increase in salary expense for new and existing employees, insurance expense and public relations costs offset by a decrease in stock compensation costs for employees and directors due to the issuance of options, investor relations expenses and financial services costs. Also, part of the decrease was attributable to less amortization expense related to the intangibles. Professional fees totaling $171,498 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 increased due to additional legal, accounting and business development costs required to expand our growth opportunities compared to $90,019 in 2019. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0 as compared to $462 in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was due to the conversion of all debt as a result of the merger in 2018, except for a promissory note assumed which was repaid in full in March 2019. Our net loss was $403,273 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. This represents a 28.7% decrease from our net loss of $565,465 in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Overall, the decrease in net loss is due to an increase in our revenue and gross margins offset by greater operating costs greater operating costs as a result of the shifts in our sales and long-term growth strategies. We are in the process of continuing to address these shifts by developing new platforms, products and services that support prevailing growth opportunities in domestic industrial hemp and sustainable agriculture and growing our drone-enabled package delivery business. 32 Table of Contents Cash Flows March 31, 2020 Compared to December 31, 2019 Cash on hand was $356,084 at March 31, 2020 compared to the $717,997 at December 31, 2019, a decrease of $361,913. Cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $(359,629) compared to $(418,636) of cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in cash was driven largely by payments of accounts payable for increased payroll expenses, consulting expenses, higher business development expenses and costs associated with being a publicly-traded company. There was $2,284 cash used in our investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to no cash provided by or used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in cash used in our investing activities resulted from the purchase of property and equipment for our platform development team. Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0 compared to cash used in financing activities of $31,970 as of March 31, 2019. The decrease in cash used by our financing activities was due to payments on promissory notes no longer required due to full repayment being made in 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had working capital of $258,093 and a loss from operations of $403,273 for the period then ended. While there can be no guarantees, we believe cash on hand, in connection with cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund operations for the next year of operations. In addition, we intend to pursue other opportunities of financing with outside investors. On November 21, 2017, Alpha Capital Anstalt (Alpha) signed a binding commitment letter with our predecessor company EnerJex to provide prior to or at the closing of the merger a minimum of $4 million in new equity capital (the Private Placement). The Private Placement was consummated on March 26, 2018. In connection with the Private Placement, Alpha purchased an additional 4,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $1,000 per share for total aggregate consideration of $4 million. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible into 2,612,245 shares of our common stock. In addition, as consideration for their funding commitment, Alpha received a fee equal to 408,552 shares of our common stock. Each share of Series C Preferred Stock is convertible into a number of shares of our common stock equal to the quotient determined by dividing (x) the stated value of $1,000 per share, by (y) a conversion price of $0.54. Until the volume weighted average price of our common stock on NYSE exceeds $107.50 with average trading volume of 200,000 shares per day for ten consecutive trading days, the conversion price of our Series C Preferred Stock is subject to full-ratchet, anti-dilution price protection. Under that provision, if, while that full-ratchet, anti-dilution price protection is in effect, we issue shares of our common stock at a price per share (the Dilutive Price) that is less than the conversion price, then the conversion price of our Series C Preferred Stock is automatically reduced to be equal to the Dilutive Price. The effect of that reduction is that, upon the issuance of shares of common stock at a Dilutive Price, the Series C Preferred Stock would be convertible into a greater number of shares of our common stock. On December 27, 2018, we entered into Securities Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Alpha. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, our Board of Directors designated a new series of preferred stock, the Series D Preferred Stock, which is non-convertible and provides for an 8% annual dividend and is subject to optional redemption by us (the Series D Preferred Stock). We issued 2,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock and a warrant (the Warrant) to purchase 3,703,703 shares of our common stock for $2,000,000 in gross proceeds. The shares of common stock underlying the Warrant are referred to as the Warrant Shares. We also entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement) granting registration rights to Alpha with respect to the Warrant Shares. The Agreement provides that upon a subsequent financing or financings with net proceeds of at least $500,000, we must exercise our optional redemption of the Series D Preferred Stock and apply any and all net proceeds from such financing(s) to the redemption in full of the Series D Preferred Stock. 33 Table of Contents The Warrant is exercisable for a period of five years through December 26, 2023, at an exercise price equal to $0.54 per share, and is subject to customary adjustments for stock splits dividend, rights offerings, pro rata distributions and fundamental transactions. In addition, in the event that we undertake a subsequent equity financing or financings at an effective price per share that is less than $0.54, the exercise price of the Warrant shall be reduced to the lower price. Our primary need for liquidity is to fund working capital requirements of our business, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service, and for general corporate purposes. To date, our primary source of liquidity is funds generated by financing activities and from private placements. Our ability to fund our operations, to make planned capital expenditures, to make planned acquisitions, to make scheduled debt payments, and to repay or refinance indebtedness depends on our future operating performance and cash flows, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Since our inception, except for standard operating leases, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. Contractual Obligations We have no material contractual obligations. Inflation Our opinion is that inflation has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our operations. Climate Change Our opinion is that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had, or are expected to have, any material effect on our operations. New Accounting Pronouncements There were various updates recently issued, most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries and are not expected to a have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents