ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion highlights the principal factors that have affected our financial condition and results of operations as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the explanatory note concerning Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements. The operating results for the periods presented were not significantly affected by inflation. Company Overview AgEagle Aerial Systems Inc. (AgEagle, the Company, us, we, our) produces, supports and operates technologically advanced drone systems and solutions for the fast-emerging unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) industry. We are engaged in delivering the metrics, tools and strategies necessary to invent and implement drone-enabled solutions that solve important problems for our valued customers. With our founding premise rooted in high performance, next-level thinking, and technological innovation, AgEagle is intent on ensuring that new standards for quality U.S. manufacturing and the provision of precision-crafted, purpose-built drone systems and solutions are delivered to empower our customers to thrive and prosper in The Drone Age. Founded in 2010, AgEagle was originally formed to pioneer proprietary, professional-grade, fixed-wing drones and aerial imagery-based data collection and analytics solutions for the agriculture industry. In addition to selling our innovative drones to the precision and sustainable farming markets, AgEagles innovative data collection and analytics solutions have processed more than two million acres of crops, analyzing data from over 50 countries and 53 difference crop types, and creating more than 11,000 crop reports for its users. AgEagle remains intent on earning distinction as a trusted partner to clients seeking to adopt and support productive agricultural approaches to improve farming practices which currently limit the impact on our natural resources, reduce reliance on inputs and materially increase crop yields and profits. In the first half of 2019, the Company introduced HempOverview , a scalable, responsive and cost-effective SaaS web- and map-based technology platform to support the operations of domestic industrial hemp programs for state and tribal nation departments of agriculture a solution that provides users with what the Company believes is the gold standard for regulatory oversight, operational assistance and reporting capabilities for the fast emerging industrial hemp industry. Over the past decade, the broader drone market has continued to evolve and expand. As a result, economic and productivity benefits made possible by drones is fueling global demand for high quality, safe and reliable drone systems and solutions for commercial applications well beyond agriculture. In response, AgEagle is now leveraging our technological expertise and drone engineering and manufacturing experience to penetrate new, high growth market sectors; namely, drone package delivery, public safety/security, large venue decontamination and infrastructure/ inspection, among other high growth market opportunities. 29 AgEagles key growth objectives are centered on three primary areas of focus: 1) Ag Solutions: Leveraging our reputation as one of the leading technology solutions providers to the agriculture industry to increase market share through delivery of best-in-class drones, sensors and data analytics for hemp and other commercial crops; 2) Drone Manufacturing : Establishing AgEagle as the dominant commercial drone design, engineering, manufacturing, assembly and testing company in the United States; and 3) Drone Solutions: Establishing the Company as one of the industrys leading American-made trusted source for turnkey, end-to-end, tailored drone solutions to the world. We intend to grow our business by preserving a leadership position in our core Ag Solutions business; providing quality contract manufacturing, assembly and testing services; and innovating new customer-focused drone systems and solutions to capture significant share of the broader commercial drone market. In addition, we expect to accelerate our growth and expansion through strategic acquisitions of drone-related companies offering distinct technological and competitive advantages and have defensible IP protection in place, if applicable. Key Growth Strategies We intend to grow our business by achieving greater market penetration of the growing precision agriculture marketplace; by promoting our new service targeting the sustainable agriculture marketplace for the 2021 growing season; and by creating new, easier to use and higher value products that position AgEagle as a leading innovator and trusted solutions provider in high growth markets where advanced aerial imaging and data capture and analytics technologies can be used to achieve specific business and sustainability objectives. Currently, our management is actively exploring new vertical expansion opportunities in other industries outside of agriculture and its related areas, including drone-enabled package delivery. In addition to drone package deliveries, we believe that our solutions and services may also be well suited for use in decontamination, mapping and surveying, mining/resource exploration, insurance inspection and infrastructure/asset inspection, among other industrial applications. Key components of our growth strategy include the following: Achieving greater market penetration of the U.S. industrial hemp industry by working to establish HempOverview and other related products and services as the gold industry standard for hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement and commerce. AgEagle is and intends to remain at the leading edge of leveraging best-in-class technology to provide turnkey solutions for state and tribal regulatory departments of agriculture, industrial hemp and hemp-derived CBD growers and processors. At this time, AgEagle believes that it is the only company in the nation with extensive experience in agriculture that is effectively addressing the emerging needs and challenges of the domestic hemp cultivation industry through the application of advanced technology a key competitive differential that the Company hopes to continue capitalizing on in the coming year. Deliver new and innovative solutions. AgEagles research and development efforts are the foundation of the Company, and we intend to continue investing in our own innovations, pioneering new and enhanced products and solutions that enable us to satisfy the Companys customers both in response to and in anticipation of their needs. AgEagle believes that by investing in research and development, the Company can be a leader in delivering innovative drone systems and solutions that address market needs within our current target markets, enabling us to create new opportunities for growth. Continue to expand the AgEagle platform of drone systems and solutions into other industries beyond agriculture and commercial package delivery. The Company is actively pursuing opportunities outside of agriculture as we continue to expand and grow the AgEagle platform. We are confident in the UAV systems, services and solutions we offer today and believe that these systems, services and solutions could provide other drone industry sectors the same kind of optimization we are currently providing the agriculture industry. Expansion initiatives include the provision of quality contract manufacturing, design and engineering, assembly and testing of advanced drones and drone-related equipment, as well as turnkey drone solutions for the broader drone market. 30 Growth through acquisition. Through successful execution of our growth-through-acquisition strategies, we intend to acquire technologically-advanced drone-related companies and intellectual property that complement and strengthen our value proposition to the market. We believe that by investing in complementary acquisitions, we can accelerate our revenue growth and deliver a broader array of innovative drone systems and solutions that address specialized market needs within our current target markets and in emerging drone industry sectors. Competitive Strengths AgEagle believes the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Proprietary technologies, in-house capabilities and industry experience - We believe our decade of experience in commercial drone design and engineering; in-house manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities; and advanced technology development skillset serve to differentiate AgEagle in the marketplace. As of today, we develop and manufacture all the drone systems and solutions we produce in the United States, which allows us to avoid many of the potential difficulties that could arise if our engineering and manufacturing operations were otherwise located outside of the country. In addition, AgEagle is committed to meeting and exceeding quality and safety standards for manufacturing, assembly, design and engineering and testing of drones, drone subcomponents and related drone equipment in our Wichita-based manufacturing operations. Advanced technology solutions allow users to remove the guesswork in effectively managing hemp cultivation oversight, compliance, enforcement, reporting and commerce - To our knowledge, there is no other SaaS solution available on the market today particularly one that has been developed by a proven Agtech company with the level of experience and expertise of AgEagle that provides the multi-faceted level of support and services that HempOverview offers to all stakeholders in the industry. Increased margins for farmers - We believe our drones and drone solutions directly enhance margins for commercial farmers by reducing the amount of nutrients and chemicals needed to manage their farms. The software equipped on our UAVs deliver a high-quality aerial map upon completion of the flight, allowing the user to accurately identify the specific areas that are malnourished. This software is compatible with precision applicator tractors, which assist users in applying a precise amount of nutrients in only the areas it is needed. In addition, Our UAVs are specially designed to provide users with a portable and easy to operate device, which can be controlled with a hand-held unit or tablet. Through our FarmLens platform, users are able to plan and track an efficient flight path for their UAV. The UAVs are equipped with a camera and NIR filter whose images provide a holistic aerial view of the fields, along with meaningful data that is uploaded and delivered to the user within a very short time frame. As a result, this platform allows users to quickly detect any issues in their crops, which enables them to address such issues in a timely manner before any damage, or further damage, may affect their crops. Expertise in drone delivery Since 2019, AgEagle has been actively engaged in the custom manufacturing and assembly of drones and drone equipment used for the testing and refining of a world leading ecommerce companys commercial drone small package delivery vehicles, systems and operations. As a result, we are uniquely positioned to collaborate with other organizations seeking to activate and accelerate adoption of end-to-end drone delivery solutions to drive new and differentiated value creation in their business-to-business or business-to-consumer operations. Leading-edge research and delivery In order to propel functional commercial applications of drone solutions in real world, real-time environments, and to best aid in the determination and ultimate adoption of a regulatory framework to guide and direct mainstream commercial use of drones beyond visual line of sight, AgEagle is a lead participant in the FAAs BEYOND program in Kansas and is actively engaged in partnering with other leading drone solutions companies on pilot projects with long-term commercial potential. 31 Impact of COVID-19 On Our Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has evolved into a global pandemic. The coronavirus has spread to many regions of the world, including the United States. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business and operating results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. Should the coronavirus continue to spread, our business operations could be delayed or interrupted. For instance, we currently utilize third parties to, among other things, manufacture components and parts for the proprietary and contracted drones we produce, and to perform quality testing. We also manufacture and assemble products and perform various services at our manufacturing facility. If either we or any third-parties in the supply chain for materials used in our manufacturing and assembly processes are adversely impacted by restrictions resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, our supply chain may be disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture and assemble products. The spread of the coronavirus, which has caused a broad impact globally, including restrictions on travel and quarantine policies put into place by businesses and governments, may have a material economic effect on our business. While the potential economic impact brought on by and the duration of the pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, it has already caused, and is likely to result in further, significant disruptions of global financial markets, which may reduce our future ability to access capital either at all or on favorable terms. In addition, a recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event resulting from the spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our Common Stock. The ultimate impact of the current pandemic, or any other health epidemic, is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business or the global economy as a whole. However, these effects could have a material impact on our operations in the future. We will continue to monitor the situation closely. During the year ended December 31, 2020, in addition to complying with shelter at home mandates in those states affecting our employees, most of whom worked virtually from their homes, our supply chain was adversely impacted by the pandemic, causing material delays in the delivery of critical supply orders associated with timely fulfilling our obligations to our large ecommerce client. As a consequence, revenues originally expected to be reported in the second quarter 2020 were reported in the third quarter 2020 results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our most critical estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventories and reserves for excess and obsolescence, accounting for stock-based awards, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in