Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this quarterly report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2022, including those described under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors in such Form 10-K, and other filings we make with the SEC. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this quarterly report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that may materially affect the forward-looking statements include the following: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, markets, supply chain, customers and workforce, on the credit and financial markets, and on the global economy generally; adverse developments in the credit markets that could adversely affect funding of construction projects; 34 the ability and willingness of customers to invest in infrastructure projects; a decline in demand for our services or for the products and services of our customers; the fact that our revenues are derived primarily from contracts with durations of less than six months and the risk that customers will not renew or enter into new contracts; our ability to successfully acquire other businesses, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations and manage the risks and potential liabilities associated with those acquisitions; the impact of our regional, decentralized business model on our ability to execute on our business strategies and operate our business successfully; our ability to compete successfully in the industries and markets we serve; our ability to properly manage and accurately estimate costs associated with specific customer projects, in particular for arrangements with fixed price terms; supply chain constraints and interruptions, and the resulting increases in the cost, or reductions in the supply, of the materials and commodities we use in our business and for which we bear the risk of such increases; the impact of inflation; our relationship with our employees, a large portion of which are covered by collective bargaining arrangements, and our ability to effectively manage and utilize our workforce; the inherently dangerous nature of the services we provide and the risks of potential liability; the impact of customer consolidation; the loss of the services of key senior management personnel and the availability of skilled personnel; the seasonality of our business and the impact of weather conditions; the variability of our operating results between periods and the resulting difficulty in forecasting future operating results; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our accounting estimates and assumptions; litigation that results from our business, including costs related to any damages we may be required to pay as a result of general liability or workmanship claims brought by our customers; the impact of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, and the costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations; our substantial level of indebtedness and the effect of restrictions on our operations set forth in the documents that govern such indebtedness; our expectations regarding the acquisition of the Chubb fire and security business, including the expected benefits of the acquisition and future value creation opportunities; the impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine; and our compliance with certain financial maintenance covenants in our credit agreement and the effect on our liquidity of any failure to comply with such covenants. The factors identified above are believed to be important factors, but not necessarily all of the important factors, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us. Other factors not discussed herein could also have a material adverse effect on us. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report. We assume no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available in the future, except as required by applicable law. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements as well as others made in this quarterly report and hereafter in our other SEC filings and public communications. You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made by us in the context of these risks and uncertainties. 35 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section should be read in conjunction with the Interim Statements and related notes included in this quarterly report, and the Consolidated Financial Statements, related notes and the MD&A section and other disclosures contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including financial results for the year ended December 31, 2021. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements section of this quarterly report. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). To supplement our financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in this MD&A section, we present EBITDA, which is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure, to assist readers in understanding our performance and provide an additional perspective on trends and underlying operating results on a period-to-period comparable basis. Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures either exclude or include amounts not reflected in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Where a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure is used, we have provided the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, a reconciliation to the U.S. GAAP measure and a discussion of the reasons why management believes this information is useful to it and may be useful to investors. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to APG, the Company, we, us, and our refer to APi Group Corporation and its subsidiaries. Overview APG is a global market-leading business services provider of safety and specialty services in over 500 locations in approximately 20 countries. We provide statutorily mandated and other contracted services to a strong base of long-standing customers across industries. We have a winning leadership culture driven by entrepreneurial business leaders that deliver innovative solutions to our customers. We operate our business under two primary operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Safety Services A leading provider of safety services in North America, Asia Pacific, and Europe, focusing on end-to-end integrated occupancy systems (fire protection solutions, Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) and entry systems), including design, installation, inspection and service of these integrated systems. The work performed within this segment spans across industries and facilities and includes commercial, education, healthcare, high tech, industrial and special-hazard settings. Specialty Services A leading provider of a variety of infrastructure services and specialized industrial plant services, which include maintenance and repair of critical infrastructure such as underground electric, gas, water, sewer and telecommunications infrastructure. Our services include engineering and design, fabrication, installation, maintenance service and repair, retrofitting and upgrading, pipeline infrastructure, access and road construction, supporting facilities, and performing ongoing integrity management and maintenance to customers within the energy industry. Customers within this segment vary from private and public utilities, communications, healthcare, education, transportation, manufacturing, industrial plants and governmental agencies throughout North America. We focus on growing our recurring revenues and repeat business from our diversified long-standing customers across a variety of end markets, which we believe provides us with stable cash flows and a platform for organic growth. We believe maintenance and service revenues are generally more predictable through contractual arrangements with typical terms ranging from days to three years, with the majority having short durations and are often recurring due to consistent renewal rates and long-standing customer relationships. For financial information about our operating segments, see Note 20 Segment Information to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. 36 Recent Developments and Certain Factors and Trends Affecting our Results of Operations Acquisitions On January 3, 2022, we completed the acquisition of the Chubb fire and security business (the "Chubb Acquisition"). The purchase consideration included $2,935 million of cash transferred at closing less $60 million of cash acquired. The Chubb fire and security business (the "Chubb business") is a globally recognized fire safety and security services provider, offering customers complete and reliable services from design and installation to monitoring and on-going maintenance and recurring services. We expect the Chubb business will be a core asset within our Safety Services segment, and will provide meaningful opportunities for future value creation through providing complementary revenue growth by expanding our opportunities for cross-selling products and services across our key end markets. For additional information about our acquisition activity, see Note 4 Business Combinations" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. Resegmentation Beginning in 2022, we reorganized our governance structure and combined the leadership responsibility and full accountability of our Industrial Services and Specialty Services segments into one operating segment. As a result, the information for our Industrial Services segment is combined with the Specialty Services segment and we present financial information for the Safety Services and Specialty Services segments, which are our two primary operating segments and also our reportable segments. Our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information to allocate resources and assess performance utilizing these reorganized segments. Certain prior year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year presentation and the information in the tables below has been retroactively adjusted to reflect these changes in reporting segments. Economic, Industry and Market Factors We closely monitor the effects of general changes in economic and market conditions on our customers. General economic and market conditions can negatively affect demand for our customers products and services, which can affect their planned capital and maintenance budgets in certain end markets. Market, regulatory and industry factors could affect demand for our services, including: (i) changes to customers capital spending plans; (ii) mergers and acquisitions among the customers we serve; (iii) new or changing regulatory requirements or other governmental policy changes or uncertainty; (iv) economic, market or political developments; (v) changes in technology, tax and other incentives; and (vi) access to capital for customers in the industries we serve. Availability of transportation and transmission capacity and fluctuations in market prices for energy and other fuel sources can also affect demand for our services for pipeline and power generation construction services. These fluctuations, as well as the highly competitive nature of our industries, can result, and has resulted, in lower proposals and lower profit on the services we provide. In the face of increased pricing pressure on key materials, such as steel, or other market developments, we strive to maintain our profit margins through productivity improvements, cost reduction programs, pricing adjustments, and business streamlining efforts. Increased competition for skilled labor resources and higher labor costs can reduce our profitability and impact our ability to deliver timely service to our customers. While we actively monitor economic, industry and market factors that could affect our business, we cannot predict the effect that changes in such factors may have on our future consolidated results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, and we may be unable to fully mitigate, or benefit from, such changes. COVID-19 Update We continue to monitor short- and long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, and as the situation has continued to evolve, the impacts on our work have also evolved. Throughout 2020 and into 2021, we encountered headwinds related to job site accessibility, project delays, workflow disruptions due to COVID-19 protocols, and diminished demand from our customers. With the progress in the administration of vaccines during 2021, we began, and continue to experience stabilization and volume improvements as our teams and customers adapted to working in the long-term COVID-19 environment and the markets in which we operate began to recover. 37 In the later half of 2021 and into the first quarter of 2022, we experienced supply chain disruptions, which has negatively impacted the source and supply of materials needed to perform our work. Additionally, the outbreak of recent variants and their related containment and mitigation efforts that have been put in place around the world, has impacted the availability of skilled labor resources, particularly in our international businesses, interrupting our ability to execute our jobs. Although the majority of our businesses have largely recovered from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, there remains significant uncertainty about the future impacts of the pandemic, or any resulting market disruption or volatility, including the potential effects on our operations. We continue to be cautiously optimistic about the markets in which we operate and the customers we serve; however, should there be a slowdown in economic activity due to surges in the number of cases, or an increase in variants of the virus that are more virulent, contagious, or against which current vaccines are less effective, it is possible that projects could be delayed or canceled or that we could experience restricted access to our customers facilities, preventing us from performing maintenance and service projects. The extent to which our business and results of operations are impacted in future periods will also depend upon a number of other factors, including limitations on the ability of our employees to perform their work due to illness caused by the pandemic or local, state, or federal orders requiring vaccination, testing, or quarantine, our customers demand for our services, and our ability to continue to safely and effectively operate in this environment. Russia-Ukraine conflict The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has had political, social and economic impacts that have affected our business, and which may have future business impacts that are difficult to predict and/or quantify. The most immediate impact has been on energy supply and pricing, increasing our direct costs. In addition, the conflict is and may in the future exacerbate general global inflationary pressures as the longer term interruption in production of goods in Ukraine emerges. The conflict is also reducing international political stability, which in turn may adversely impact markets in a variety of ways. For example, sanctions and other penalties imposed by countries across the globe against Russia are creating substantial uncertainty in the global economy. While we do not have operations in Russia or Ukraine and believe that we do not have a material direct exposure to customers, suppliers and vendors in those countries, we are unable to predict the impact that these actions will have on the global economy or on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Should the conflict escalate beyond its current scope, including, among other potential impacts, the geographic proximity of the conflict relative to the rest of Europe, where a material portion of our business is carried out, further impacts on our business could emerge. The precise impacts on our business are difficult to predict but could include increased direct costs of materials and labor; increased credit or other capital costs; and impacts on demand for our services, which could include increased demand for our services related to energy production outside of the conflict area but that could also include a reduction in demand in other geographies or markets. Effect of Seasonality and Cyclical Nature of Business Our net revenues and results of operations can be subject to variability stemming from seasonality and industry cyclicality. Seasonal variations are primarily related to large, non-recurring projects that can be influenced by weather conditions impacting customer spending patterns, contract award seasons, and project schedules, as well as the timing of holidays. Consequently, net revenues for our businesses are typically lower during the first and second quarters due to the prevalence of unfavorable weather conditions, which can cause project delays and affect productivity. Additionally, the industries we serve can be cyclical. Fluctuations in end-user demand, or in the supply of services, within those industries, can affect demand for our services. As a result, our business may be adversely affected by industry declines or by delays in new projects. Variations or unanticipated changes in project schedules in connection with large projects can create fluctuations in net revenues. Recent Accounting Pronouncements A summary of recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 3 Recent Accounting Pronouncements to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. 38 Description of Key Line Items Net Revenues Net revenues are generated from the sale of various types of contracted services, fabrication and distribution. We derive net revenues primarily from services under contractual arrangements with durations ranging from days to three years, with the majority having durations of less than six months, and which may provide the customer with pricing options that include a combination of fixed, unit, or time and material pricing. Net revenues for fixed price agreements are generally recognized over time using the cost-to-cost method of accounting which measures progress based on the cost incurred to total expected cost in satisfying our performance obligation. Net revenues from time and material contracts are recognized as the services are provided. Net revenues earned are based on total contract costs incurred plus an agreed upon markup. Net revenues for these cost-plus contracts are recognized over time on an input basis as labor hours are incurred, materials are utilized, and services are performed. Net revenues from wholesale or retail unit sales are recognized at a point-in-time upon shipment. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of direct labor, materials, subcontract costs and indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Labor costs are considered to be incurred as the work is performed. Subcontractor labor is recognized as the work is performed. Gross Profit Our gross profit is influenced by direct labor, materials, and subcontract costs. Our profit margins are also influenced by raw material costs, contract mix, weather, and proper coordination with contract providers. Labor intensive contracts usually drive higher margins than those contracts that include material, subcontract, and equipment costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling expenses consist primarily of compensation and associated costs for sales and marketing personnel, costs of advertising, trade shows and corporate marketing. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and associated costs for executive management, personnel, facility leases, administrative expenses associated with accounting, finance, legal, information systems, leadership development, human resources, and risk management and overhead associated with these functions. General and administrative expenses also include outside professional fees and other corporate expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization expense reflects the charges incurred to amortize our finite-lived identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. There is a portion of amortization expense related to the backlog intangible assets reflected in cost of revenues in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Non-service pension benefit Non-service pension benefit reflects the sum of the components of pension expense not related to service cost, i.e. interest cost, expected return on assets, and amortizations of prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates For information regarding our Critical Accounting Policies, see the Critical Accounting Policies section of the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. 39 Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition and results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and the three months ended March 31, 2021. Three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Net revenues $ 1,471 $ 803 $ 668 83.2 % Cost of revenues 1,095 622 473 76.0 % Gross profit 376 181 195 107.7 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 383 183 200 109.3 % Operating income (loss) (7 ) (2 ) (5 ) 250.0 % Interest expense, net 27 15 12 80.0 % Non-service pension benefit (11 ) (11 ) NM Investment income and other, net (3 ) 3 NM Other expense, net 16 12 4 33.3 % Income (loss) before income taxes (23 ) (14 ) (9 ) 64.3 % Income tax provision (benefit) (16 ) (6 ) (10 ) 166.7 % Net income (loss) $ (7 ) $ (8 ) $ 1 (12.5 )% NM = Not meaningful Net revenues Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $1,471 million compared to $803 million for the same period in 2021, an increase of $668 million or 83.2%. The increase in net revenues was primarily driven by additional revenues contributed by acquisitions completed during the previous 12 months within the Safety Services segment. In addition, the increase in net revenues was due to growth in inspection and service revenue, our ability to pass through inflationary increases in costs through project pricing, as well as continued market recoveries from the COVID-19 pandemic within our Safety Services and Specialty Services segments. Gross profit The following table presents our gross profit (net revenues less cost of revenues) and gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net revenues) for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively: Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Gross profit $ 376 $ 181 $ 195 107.7 % Gross margin 25.6 % 22.5 % Our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $376 million compared to $181 million for the same period in 2021, an increase of $195 million, or 107.7%. Gross margin was 25.6%, an increase of 310 basis points compared to prior year, primarily due to acquisitions completed during the previous 12 months within the Safety Services segment and an improved mix of inspection and service revenue and growth within the Safety Services segment. These improvements were partially offset by supply chain disruptions and inflation causing downward pressure on margins. 40 Operating expenses The following table presents operating expenses and operating margin (operating income as a percentage of net revenues) for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively: Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 383 $ 183 $ 200 109.3 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a % of net revenues 26.0 % 22.8 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) (Non-GAAP) 329 153 176 115.0 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) as a % of net revenues 22.4 % 19.1 % Operating margin (0.5 )% (0.2 )% Our selling, general, and administrative expenses ("SG&A expenses") for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $383 million compared to $183 million for the same period in 2021, an increase of $200 million. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues was 26.0% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to 22.8% for the same period in 2021. The primary drivers for the increase in SG&A expenses include additional SG&A expenses contributed by acquisitions completed in the prior 12 months, as well as higher levels of spending associated with acquisitions, including integration, transformation, and reorganization expenses and an increase in amortization expense of $24 million compared to the same period in 2021. Our SG&A expenses excluding amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $329 million, or 22.4% of net revenues, compared to $153 million, or 19.1% of net revenues, for the same period of 2021 primarily due to the factors discussed above. See the discussion and reconciliation of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures below. Interest expense, net Interest expense was $27 million and $15 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to the increased debt volume following the Chubb Acquisition related financing. Non-service pension benefit The non-service pension benefit was $11 million and $0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The higher year-on-year benefit in 2022 was solely due to the acquisition of pension plans during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Refer to Note 14 - "Pension" to our condensed consolidated financial statements herein for additional details. Investment income and other, net Investment income and other, net was less than $1 million and $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decline in investment income and other, net was primarily due to a the impact of changes in foreign currency rates and fluctuations in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Income tax provision The income tax expense (benefit) for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $(16) million compared to $(6) million in the same period of the prior year. This change was driven by lower income before taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 71.3%, compared to 42.3% in the same period of 2021. The difference in the effective tax rate was driven by a discrete item that was recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2022 for the reversal of the our indefinite reinvestment assertion. The difference between the effective tax rate and the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 21.0% is due to the nondeductible permanent items, state taxes, and the reversal of the our indefinite reinvestment assertion. 41 Net loss and EBITDA The following table presents net loss and EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively: Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Net income (loss) $ (7 ) $ (8 ) $ 1 12.5 % EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 80 51 29 56.9 % Net income (loss) as a % of net revenues (0.5 )% (1.0 )% EBITDA as a % of net revenues 5.4 % 6.4 % Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $(7) million compared to $(8) million for the same period in 2021, an increase of $1 million. The slight improvement resulted from additional revenue and profit contributed by acquisitions completed in the previous 12 months and an improved mix of inspection and service revenue. These increases were largely offset by higher levels of spending related to acquisition expenses and increased interest costs associated with newly issued term loan debt. Net loss as a percentage of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was (0.5)% compared to (1.0)% for the same period in 2021. EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $80 million compared to $51 million for the same period in 2021, an increase of $29 million. The increase in EBITDA was primarily driven by the factors previously discussed and an increase in our income tax benefit of $10 million, offset by increased amortization expense of $26 million and increased interest expense of $12 million. See the discussion and reconciliation of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures below. Operating Segment Results for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Safety Services $ 1,074 $ 466 $ 608 130.5 % Specialty Services 412 344 68 19.8 % Corporate and Eliminations (15 ) (7 ) (8 ) 114.3 % $ 1,471 $ 803 $ 668 83.2 % Operating Income (Loss) Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Safety Services $ 63 $ 45 $ 18 40.0 % Safety Services operating margin 5.9 % 9.7 % Specialty Services (7 ) (18 ) 11 (61.1 )% Specialty Services operating margin (1.7 )% (5.2 )% Corporate and Eliminations (63 ) (29 ) (34 ) 117.2 % $ (7 ) $ (2 ) $ (5 ) 250.0 % EBITDA Three Months Ended March 31, Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 $ % Safety Services $ 123 $ 65 $ 58 89.2 % Safety Services EBITDA as a % of net revenues 11.5 % 13.9 % Specialty Services 20 14 6 42.9 % Specialty Services EBITDA as a % of net revenues 4.9 % 4.1 % Corporate and Eliminations (63 ) (28 ) (35 ) 125.0 % $ 80 $ 51 $ 29 56.9 % 42 The following discussion breaks down the net revenues, operating income (loss) and EBITDA by operating segment for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Safety Services Safety Services net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $608 million or 130.5% compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by additional net revenues contributed by acquisitions completed in the prior 12 months, general market recoveries in both our Life Safety and HVAC service businesses and increased inspection and service revenue within our Life Safety businesses. Safety Services operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately 5.9% and 9.7%, respectively. The decline was the result of supply chain disruptions and inflation causing downward pressure on margins and increased integration expenses, partially offset by an increase in service and inspection revenue. Safety Services EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately 11.5% and 13.9%, respectively. This decline was primarily related to the factors discussed above. Specialty Services Specialty Services net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $68 million or 19.8% compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by increased activity in the specialty contracting markets during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year and general market recoveries driving a resumption in the demand for our services when compared to the prior year, which was negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we have been able to offset some of the inflationary increases in cost of good sold through strategic pricing improvements and contract negotiations, resulting in increased net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period on the prior year. Specialty Services operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately (1.7)% and (5.2)%, respectively. The improvement was primarily driven by higher levels of productivity in the execution of specialty contracting work during the first quarter of 2022 compared to the same period during the prior year. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we experienced margin contractions due to lower sales volumes but consistent indirect costs. Comparatively, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, margins increased due to the growth in sales volumes. These improvements were partially offset by supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures on margins. Specialty Services EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately 4.9% and 4.1%, respectively, due to the factors discussed above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We supplement our reporting of consolidated financial information determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP with Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) and EBITDA (defined below), which are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. We use these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance, both internally and as compared with our peers, because they exclude certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results. Management believes these measures are useful to investors since they (a) permit investors to view our performance using the same tools that management uses to evaluate our past performance, reportable business segments, and prospects for future performance, (b) permit investors to compare us with our peers, and (c) in the case of EBITDA, determines certain elements of managements incentive compensation. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, however, have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation from, a substitute for, or superior to, the related financial information we report in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The principal limitation of these non-U.S. GAAP financial measure is that they exclude significant expenses required by U.S. GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in calculation methods. In addition, these measures are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by management about which items are excluded or included in determining these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Investors are encouraged to review the following reconciliations of these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 43 Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) is a measure of operating costs used by management to manage the business and its segments. We believe this non-U.S. GAAP measure provides meaningful information and helps investors understand our core selling, general, and administrative expenses excluding acquisition-related amortization expense to better enable investors to understand our financial results and assess our prospects for future performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of selling, general, and administrative expenses to selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Reported selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 383 $ 183 Adjustments to reconcile to selling, general, and administrative expenses to selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) Amortization expense (54 ) (30 ) Selling, general, and administrative expenses (excluding amortization) $ 329 $ 153 EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is the measure of profitability used by management to manage its segments and, accordingly, in its segment reporting. We supplement the reporting of our consolidated financial information with EBITDA. We believe this non-U.S. GAAP measure provides meaningful information and helps investors understand our financial results and assess its prospects for future performance. Consolidated EBITDA is calculated in a manner consistent with segment EBITDA, which is a measure of segment profitability. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Reported net income (loss) $ (7 ) $ (8 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to EBITDA: Interest expense, net 27 15 Income tax provision (benefit) (16 ) (6 ) Depreciation 19 19 Amortization 57 31 EBITDA $ 80 $ 51 44 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from the operating activities of our consolidated subsidiaries, available cash and cash equivalents, our access to our Revolving Credit Facility and the proceeds from debt offerings. We believe these sources will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months. Although we believe we have sufficient resources to fund our future cash requirements, there are many factors with the potential to influence our cash flow position including weather, seasonality, commodity prices, market conditions, and prolonged impacts of COVID-19, over which we have no control. As of March 31, 2022, we had $713 million of total liquidity, comprising $315 million in cash and cash equivalents and $398 million ($500 million less outstanding letters of credit of approximately $102 million, which reduce availability) of available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we issued and sold 800,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock (defined below) for an aggregate purchase price of $800 million, and entered into an amendment to our credit agreement. As part of this amendment, we incurred a $1,100 million seven-year incremental term loan ("2021 Term Loan"), the Revolving Credit Facility was upsized from $200 million to $500 million, the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility was extended five years, and the letter of credit sublimit was increased by $100 million to $250 million. We expect to continue to be able to access the capital markets through equity and debt offerings for liquidity purposes as needed. Our principal liquidity requirements have been, and we expect will be, any accrued consideration due to selling shareholders, including tax payments in connection therewith, for working capital and general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and debt service, as well as to identify, execute and integrate strategic acquisitions and business transformation. In March 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program, authorizing the purchase of up to an aggregate of $250 million of shares of common stock through February 2024. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we repurchased 531,431 shares of common stock for approximately $11 million under this stock repurchase program, leaving approximately $239 million of authorized repurchases. Cash Flows The following table summarizes net cash flows with respect to our operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (118 ) $ 32 Net cash used in investing activities (2,884 ) (23 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,831 223 Effect of foreign currency exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 1 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,173 ) $ 233 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at the end of the period $ 318 $ 748 45 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(118) million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $32 million for the same period in 2021. Cash flows from operations is primarily driven by changes in the mix and timing of demand for our services and working capital needs associated with the various services we provide. Working capital is primarily affected by changes in total accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and contract assets and contract liabilities, all of which tend to be related and are affected by changes in the timing and volume of work performed. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, operating cash flows were impacted by inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions leading to an increase in the required level of working capital investment needed to ensure we have materials available to meet our growth in sales volumes, as well as higher levels of spending related to acquisition costs. Further, the increase in the cost of our debt related to new debt issuances that occurred during the later half of 2021 and the first quarter of 2022 and a one-time contribution to assumed pension plans of $27 million were also factors in our increased use of cash for operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $2,884 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $23 million for the same period in 2021. During the current year, we completed the Chubb Acquisition within our Safety Services segment, consistent with our focus on accretive acquisitions, resulting in the use of $2,875 million for acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $7 million for the same period in 2021. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,831 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $223 million for the same period in 2021. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to $1,101 million of proceeds from the issuance of the 2021 Term Loan and other debt, and $797 million of proceeds from the issuance of Series B Preferred Stock, partially offset by payments of $30 million on long-term debt and $11 million of share repurchases. In the prior year, the cash provided was due to $230 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with the warrant exercises which occurred during the first quarter of 2021. Financing Activities Credit Agreement In anticipation of the Chubb Acquisition, on December 16, 2021, APi Group DE, as borrower, we, as guarantor and our subsidiary guarantors named therein entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement ("Amendment No. 2"). On January 3, 2022, the closing date of the Chubb Acquisition, we closed the transactions contemplated by Amendment No. 2, pursuant to which (1) we incurred a $1,100 million seven-year incremental term loan, (2) the Revolving Credit Facility was upsized from $200 million to $500 million, (3) the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility was extended five years, (4) the letter of credit sublimit was increased by $100 million to $250 million, (5) additional loan parties and collateral in additional jurisdictions became subject to the Credit Agreement, (6) changes were made to the guarantor coverage requirements under the Credit Agreement with respect to consolidated EBITDA, and (7) certain other changes were made to the Credit Agreement. The interest rate applicable to the 2021 Term Loan is, at our option, either (a) a base rate plus an applicable margin equal to 1.75% or (b) a Eurocurrency rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus an applicable margin equal to 2.75%. Principal payments on the 2021 Term Loan will be made in quarterly installments on the last day of each fiscal quarter, for a total annual amount equal to 1.00% of the initial aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Term Loan. The 2021 Term Loan matures on January 3, 2028. The 2021 Term Loan is subject to the same mandatory prepayment provisions as the 2019 Term Loan. 46 The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that, among other things, restrict our, and our restricted subsidiaries, ability to (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; (iii) prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; (iv) make loans and investments; (v) sell, transfer and otherwise dispose of assets; (vi) incur or permit to exist certain liens; (vii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (viii) enter into agreements restricting subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and (ix) consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all assets. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default. Furthermore, with respect to the revolving credit facility, we must maintain a first lien net leverage ratio that does not exceed (i) 4.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending in 2021, and (ii) 3.75 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter, if on the last day of any fiscal quarter the outstanding amount of all revolving loans and letter of credit obligations (excluding undrawn letters of credit up to $40 million) under the Credit Agreement is greater than 30% of the total revolving credit commitments thereunder subject to a right of cure. Our first lien net leverage ratio as of March 31, 2022 was 2.93:1.00. As of March 31, 2022, we had $1,127 million and $1,085 million of indebtedness outstanding on the 2019 Term Loan and 2021 Term Loan, respectively. We had no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, under which $398 million was available after giving effect to $102 million of outstanding letters of credit, which reduce availability. Senior Notes We completed a private offering of $350 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% Senior Notes due 2029 (the 4.125% Senior Notes), issued under an indenture, dated June 22, 2021. The 4.125% Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by us and certain subsidiaries. The 4.125% Senior Notes will mature on July 15, 2029, unless redeemed earlier, and bear interest at a rate of 4.125% per year until maturity, payable semi-annually in arrears. We used the net proceeds from the sale of the 4.125% Senior Notes to repay the $250 million 2020 Term Loan, prepay a portion of the 2019 Term Loan and for general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2021, we had $350 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% Senior Notes outstanding. We completed a private offering of $300 aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Notes due 2029 (the 4.750% Senior Notes) issued under an indenture dated October 21, 2021, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated January 3, 2022. The 4.750% Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by us and certain subsidiaries. The 4.750% Senior Notes will mature on October 15, 2029, unless earlier redeemed, and bear interest at a rate of 4.750% per year until maturity, payable semi-annually in arrears. We used the net proceeds from the sale of the 4.750% Senior Notes to finance a portion of the consideration for the Chubb Acquisition. As of March 31, 2021, we had $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Notes outstanding. Debt Covenants We were in compliance with all covenants contained in the indentures governing the 4.125% Senior Notes and 4.750% Senior Notes and Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Issuance of Series B Preferred Stock On January 3, 2022, concurrent with the closing of the Chubb Acquisition, we issued and sold 800,000 shares of our 5.5% Series B Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the "Series B Preferred Stock"), for an aggregate purchase price of $800 million, pursuant to securities purchase agreements entered into on July 26, 2021 with certain investors. The net proceeds from the Series B Preferred Stock issuance were used to fund a portion of the consideration for the Chubb Acquisition. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to dividends at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable in cash or common stock, at our election. The Series B Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights and rights upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of our affairs. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible, at the holders option, into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $24.60 per share, subject to certain customary adjustments. The holders of Series B Preferred Stock have certain other rights including voting rights on an as-converted basis, certain pre-emptive rights on our private equity offerings, certain registration rights, and, in the case of certain holders, certain director designation rights, as provided in the certificate of designation governing the Series B Preferred Stock. 47 We may, at our option, effect conversion of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock to common stock, but only if the volume-weighted average price of our common stock exceeds $36.90 per share for 15 consecutive trading days. Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual and Other Obligations Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to the following, for which information on both a short-term and long-term basis is provided in the indicated notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements and expected to be satisfied using cash generated from operations: Operating and Finance Leases See Note 10 "Leases." Debt See Note 11 "Debt" for future principal payments and interest rates on our debt instruments. Tax Obligations See Note 12 "Income Taxes." Pension obligations See Note 14 "Pension." We make investments in our properties and equipment to enable continued expansion and effective performance of our business. Our capital expenditures are expected to be approximately 1.5% of annual net revenues. 48 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitat ive Disclosures about Market Risk Interest rate risk As of March 31, 2022, our variable interest rate debt was primarily related to our $1,200 million 2019 Term Loan, our $1,100 million 2021 Term Loan, and our $500 million Revolving Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2022, excluding letters of credit outstanding of $102 million, we had no amounts of outstanding revolving loans, $1,127 million outstanding on the 2019 Term Loan, and $1,085 outstanding on the 2021 Term Loan. As of March 31, 2022, we had a 5-year interest rate swap with respect to $720 million of notional value of the 2019 Term Loan, exchanging one-month LIBOR for a fixed rate of 1.62% per annum. Accordingly, our fixed interest rate per annum on the swapped $720 million notional value of the 2019 Term Loan is 4.12% through its maturity. The remaining $407 million of our 2019 Term Loan balance is bearing interest at 2.71% per annum based on one-month LIBOR plus 250 basis points. The 2021 Term Loan balance is bearing interest at 2.96% per annum based on one-month LIBOR plus 275 basis points, but the rate will fluctuate as LIBOR fluctuates. Additionally, during 2021, we entered into a euro-denominated net investment hedge with a notional value of $230 million. The net investment hedge reduces our interest expense by approximately $3 million annually and reduces our overall effective interest rate by approximately 24 basis points. A 100-basis point increase in the applicable interest rates under our credit facilities (including the unhedged portion of our 2019 Term Loan debt) would have increased our interest expense by approximately $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. While we cannot predict our ability to refinance existing debt or the impact interest rate movements will have on our existing debt, we continue to evaluate our financial position on an ongoing basis. The ICE Benchmark Administration intends to cease the publication of U.S. dollar LIBOR for all tenors (excluding 1 week and 2 month) on June 30, 2023. The discontinuation of the 1 month LIBOR after 2023 and the replacement with an alternative reference rate, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate may adversely impact interest rates and our interest expense could increase. Foreign currency risk Our operations are in approximately 20 countries globally. Revenues generated from foreign operations represented approximately 40% of our consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Net revenues and expenses related to our foreign operations are, for the most part, denominated in the functional currency of the foreign operation, which minimizes the impact fluctuations in exchange rates would have on net income or loss. We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates when transactions are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies. Such transactions were not material to our operations during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Translation gains or losses, which are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the condensed consolidated balance sheets, result from translation of the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Foreign currency translation losses (gains) totaled approximately $(59) million and ($4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates has increased as a result of the Chubb Acquisition and may continue to increase in the future if we continue to expand our operations outside of the U.S. We seek to manage foreign currency exposure by minimizing our consolidated net asset and liability positions in currencies other than the functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries. Our foreign currency exposure was not significant to our consolidated financial position as of March 31, 2022. We use foreign currency contracts as a way to mitigate foreign currency exposure from time to time. In order to manage foreign currency risk related to the Chubb business intercompany financing structure, we entered into cross-currency swaps to manage the foreign currency risk of certain intercompany loans. Other market risk We are also exposed to market risks impacting our customer base due to the potential related impact on accounts receivable or contract assets on uncompleted contracts. The amounts recorded may be at risk if our customers ability to pay these obligations is negatively impacted by economic conditions. We continually monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and maintain ongoing discussions with customers regarding contract status with respect to change orders and billing terms. Therefore, management believes it takes appropriate action to manage market and other risks, but there is no assurance management will be able to reasonably identify all risks with respect to the collectability of these assets. See also Revenue Recognition from Contracts with Customers under the Critical Accounting Policies section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. 49 In addition, we are exposed to various supply chain risks, including market risk of price fluctuations or availability of copper, steel, cable optic fiber and other materials used as components of supplies or materials utilized in our operations. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our vehicle fleet. Disruptions in our supply chain can occur due to market inefficiencies but can also be driven by other events, like cybersecurity breaches, pandemics or similar disruptive events. While we believe we can increase our contract prices to adjust for some price increases in commodities, there can be no assurance that such price increases, if they were to occur, would be recoverable. Additionally, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust prices and, as a result, increases in material costs could reduce profitability with respect to projects in progress. Significant declines in market prices for oil and gas and other fuel sources may also impact our operations. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices may result in projects being delayed or cancelled and in a low oil and gas price environment, certain of our businesses could become less profitable or incur losses.