Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements (financial statements) and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Annual Report). This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Risk Factors of our 2022 Annual Report. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview We are a community based on connection and belonginga community that was born in 2007 when two Hosts welcomed three guests to their San Francisco home, and has grown to over 4 million Hosts who have welcomed over 1.4 billion guest arrivals to over 100,000 cities and towns in almost every country and region across the globe. Hosts on Airbnb are everyday people who share their worlds to provide guests with the feeling of connection and being at home. We have five stakeholders and are designed with all of them in mind. Along with employees and shareholders, we serve Hosts, guests, and the communities in which they live. We intend to make long-term decisions considering all of our stakeholders because their collective success is key for our business to thrive. We operate a global marketplace, where Hosts offer guests stays and experiences on our platform. Our business model relies on the success of Hosts and guests (collectively referred to as customers) who join our community and generate consistent bookings over time. As Hosts become more successful on our platform and as guests return over time, we benefit from the recurring activity of our community. First Quarter Financial Highlights For the three months ended March 31, 2023, revenue grew by 20% to $1.8 billion, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a 19% increase in Nights and Experiences Booked of 19.0 million driving a 19% increase in Gross Booking Value of $3.2 billion. The growth in revenue demonstrated the continued strong travel demand. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 24% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year. We generated net income of $116.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an improvement from a net loss of $18.8 million in the same period in the prior year. Our net profit margin increased to 6% from negative 1%, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher interest income resulting from increased interest rates. Our net cash provided by operating activities was $1.6 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.2 billion, in the same period in the prior year, and we generated Free Cash Flow1 of $1.6 billion. The increase was driven by our revenue growth and increase in deferred revenue for unearned fees of $145.1 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of common stock for $492.7 million, leaving $7.3 million available to repurchase under our share repurchase program. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We track the following key business metrics and financial measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP) (non-GAAP financial measures) to evaluate our operating performance, identify trends, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Accordingly, we believe that these key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their U.S. GAAP results. These key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may be different from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided under the subsection titled Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow below. 1 A reconciliation of non-generally accepted accounting principal financial measures to the most comparable generally accepted accounting principal financial measures is provided under the subsection titled Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow below. 22 Table of Contents Investors are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Nights and Experiences Booked Nights and Experiences Booked is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which in turn drives our financial performance. Nights and Experiences Booked on our platform in a period represents the sum of the total number of nights booked for stays and the total number of seats booked for experiences, net of cancellations and alterations that occurred in that period. For example, a booking made on February 15 would be reflected in Nights and Experiences Booked for our quarter ended March 31. If, in the example, the booking were canceled on May 15, Nights and Experiences Booked would be reduced by the cancellation for our quarter ended June 30. A night can include one or more guests and can be for a listing with one or more bedrooms. A seat is booked for each participant in an experience. Substantially all of the bookings on our platform to date have come from nights. We believe Nights and Experiences Booked is a key business metric to help investors and others understand and evaluate our results of operations in the same manner as our management team, as it represents a single unit of transaction on our platform. For the first quarter of 2023, we had 121.1 million Nights and Experiences Booked, a 19% increase from 102.1 million for the same prior year period. Nights and Experiences Booked grows as we attract new customers to our platform and as repeat guests increase their activity on our platform. Our Nights and Experiences Booked increased from prior year levels driven by growth across all regions. Gross Booking Value GBV represents the dollar value of bookings on our platform in a period and is inclusive of Host earnings, service fees, cleaning fees, and taxes, net of cancellations and alterations that occurred during that period. The timing of recording GBV and any related cancellations is similar to that described in the subsection titled Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Nights and Experiences Booked above. Revenue from the booking is recognized upon check-in; accordingly, GBV is a leading indicator of revenue. The entire amount of a booking is reflected in GBV during the quarter in which booking occurs, whether the guest pays the entire amount of the booking upfront or elects to use our Pay Less Upfront program. Growth in GBV reflects our ability to attract and retain customers and reflects growth in Nights and Experiences Booked. For the first quarter of 2023, our GBV was $20.4 billion, a 19% increase from $17.2 billion for the same prior year period. The increase in our GBV was primarily due to an increase in Nights and Experiences Booked, combined with sustained elevated average daily rates. Similar to Nights and Experiences Booked, our GBV improvement was driven by growth in bookings in all regions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our non-GAAP financial measures include Adjusted EBITDA, Free Cash Flow, and revenue growth rates in constant currency, which are described below. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided below. Investors are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. The following table summarizes our non-GAAP financial measures, along with the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for each period presented below (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Net income (loss) $ (19) $ 117 Adjusted EBITDA $ 229 $ 262 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,202 $ 1,587 Free Cash Flow $ 1,196 $ 1,581 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss adjusted for (i) provision for (benefit from) income taxes; (ii) other income (expense), net, interest expense, and interest income; (iii) depreciation and amortization; (iv) stock-based compensation expense and stock-settlement obligations related to the IPO; (v) acquisition-related impacts consisting of gains (losses) recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements; (vi) net changes to the reserves for lodging taxes for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with Hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes; and (vii) restructuring charges. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are non-cash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core results of operations and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations, as well as provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business performance. Moreover, we have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measurement used by our management internally 23 Table of Contents to make operating decisions, including those related to operating expenses, evaluating performance, and performing strategic planning and annual budgeting. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with Hosts in certain jurisdictions, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included in the notes to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These limitations include the following: Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest income (expense) and other income (expense), net, which include unrealized and realized gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, investments, and financial instruments; Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain recurring, non-cash charges, such as depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, and although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA excludes acquisition-related impacts consisting of gains (losses) recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements. The contingent consideration, which was in the form of equity, was valued as of the acquisition date and is marked-to-market at each reporting period based on factors including our stock price; and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect net changes to reserves for lodging taxes for which management believes it is probable that we may be held jointly liable with Hosts for collecting and remitting such taxes. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation The following is a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure, net income (loss) (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue $ 1,509 $ 1,818 Net income (loss) $ (19) $ 117 Adjusted to exclude the following: Provision for income taxes 11 13 Other expense, net 2 7 Interest expense 6 4 Interest income (5) (146) Depreciation and amortization 29 11 Stock-based compensation expense 195 240 Acquisition-related impacts 11 12 Net changes in lodging tax reserves (1) 4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 229 $ 262 Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue 15 % 14 % Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We believe that Free Cash Flow is a meaningful indicator of liquidity that provides information to our management and investors about the amount of cash generated from operations, after purchases of property and equipment, that can be used for strategic initiatives, including continuous investment in our business, growth through acquisitions, and strengthening our balance sheet. Our Free Cash Flow is impacted by the timing of GBV because we collect our service fees at the time of booking, which is generally before a stay or experience occurs. Funds held on behalf of our customers and amounts payable to our customers do not impact Free Cash Flow, except interest earned on these funds. Free Cash Flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other U.S. GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Free Cash Flow does not reflect our ability to meet future 24 Table of Contents contractual commitments and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Free Cash Flow was $1.6 billion, representing 87% of revenue, compared to $1.2 billion, representing 79% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by net income and growth in unearned fees of $145.1 million. Free Cash Flow Reconciliation The following is a reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to the most comparable U.S. GAAP cash flow measure, net cash provided by operating activities (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue $ 1,509 $ 1,818 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,202 $ 1,587 Purchases of property and equipment (6) (6) Free Cash Flow $ 1,196 $ 1,581 Free Cash Flow as a percentage of revenue 79 % 87 % Other cash flow components: Net cash used in investing activities $ (197) $ (183) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,204 $ 2,286 Constant Currency In addition to revenue growth rates derived from revenue presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we disclose below the percentage change in our current period revenue from the corresponding prior period by comparing results using constant currencies. We present constant currency revenue growth rate information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying revenue performed excluding the effect of changes in exchange rates. We use the percentage change in constant currency revenues for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of revenue on a constant currency basis in addition to the U.S. GAAP presentation helps improve the ability to understand our performance because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results. We calculate the percentage change in constant currency by determining the change in the current period revenue over the prior comparable period where current period foreign currency revenue is translated using the exchange rates of the comparative period. Seasonality Our business is seasonal, reflecting typical travel behavior patterns over the course of the calendar year. In a typical year, the first, second, and third quarters have higher Nights and Experiences Booked than the fourth quarter, as guests plan for travel during the peak travel season, which is in the third quarter for North America and EMEA. Our business metrics, including GBV and Adjusted EBITDA, can also be impacted by the timing of holidays and other events. We experience seasonality in our GBV that is generally consistent with the seasonality of Nights and Experiences Booked. Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highest in the third quarter when we have the most check-ins, which is the point at which we recognize revenue. Seasonal trends in our GBV impact Free Cash Flow for any given quarter. Our costs are relatively fixed across quarters or vary in line with the volume of transactions, and we historically achieve our highest GBV in the first and second quarters of the year with comparatively lower check-ins. As a result, increases in unearned fees make our Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow as a percentage of revenue the highest in the first two quarters of the year. We typically see a slight decline in GBV and a peak in check-ins in the third quarter, which results in a decrease in unearned fees and a lower sequential decrease in Free Cash Flow, and a greater decline in GBV in the fourth quarter, where Free Cash Flow is typically lower. As our business matures and travel continues to recover post the COVID-19 pandemic, other seasonal trends may develop, or these existing seasonal trends may become more extreme. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue $ 1,509 $ 1,818 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 363 428 Operations and support(1) 233 282 Product development(1) 363 420 Sales and marketing(1) 345 450 General and administrative(1) 210 243 Total costs and expenses 1,514 1,823 Loss from operations (5) (5) Interest income 5 146 Interest expense (6) (4) Other expense, net (2) (7) Income (loss) before income taxes (8) 130 Provision for income taxes 11 13 Net income (loss) $ (19) $ 117 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Operations and support $ 12 $ 15 Product development 118 149 Sales and marketing 21 28 General and administrative 44 48 Stock-based compensation expense $ 195 $ 240 The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 24 24 Operations and support 15 15 Product development 24 23 Sales and marketing 23 25 General and administrative 14 13 Total costs and expenses 100 100 Loss from operations Interest income 7 Interest expense Other expense, net Income (loss) before income taxes 7 Provision for income taxes 1 1 Net income (loss) (1) % 6 % 26 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 with the Same Period in 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 1,509 $ 1,818 20 % Revenue increased $309.0 million, or 20%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a 19% increase in Nights and Experiences Booked. On a constant-currency basis, revenue increased 24% compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and British Pound. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 363 $ 428 18 % Percentage of revenue 24 % 24 % Cost of revenue increased $65.1 million, or 18%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in merchant fees of $56.6 million and an increase of $6.9 million in chargebacks, both related to an increase in pay-in volumes, and an increase in cloud computing costs of $6.5 million due to increased server and data storage usage, partially offset by a decrease of $8.8 million in amortization expense. Operations and Support Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Operations and support $ 233 $ 282 21 % Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Operations and support expense increased $48.5 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a $36.7 million increase in third-party community support personnel and customer relations costs, and a $10.8 million increase in payroll-related expenses primarily due to growth in headcount and increased compensation costs. Product Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Product development $ 363 $ 420 16 % Percentage of revenue 24 % 23 % Product development expense increased $57.2 million, or 16%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a $59.3 million increase in payroll-related expenses due to growth in headcount and increased compensation costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Brand and performance marketing $ 231 $ 307 33 % Field operations and policy 114 143 25 % Total sales and marketing $ 345 $ 450 30 % Percentage of revenue 23 % 25 % 27 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expense increased $105.1 million, or 30%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a $54.3 million increase in marketing activities associated with our Airbnb It, Im Flexible and Categories marketing campaigns and launches, a $21.9 million increase in our search engine marketing and advertising spend, and a $17.0 million increase in payroll-related expenses due to growth in headcount and increased compensation costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 210 $ 243 16 % Percentage of revenue 14 % 13 % General and administrative expense increased $32.9 million, or 16%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a $25.5 million increase in payroll related expenses due to growth in headcount and increased compensation costs, a $14.0 million increase in other business and operational taxes, and a $3.8 million increase in bad debt expenses, partially offset by an $11.7 million decrease in charitable contributions, primarily driven by prior year contributions to Airbnb.org to support Ukrainian refugees. Interest Income and Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Interest income $ 5 $ 146 * Percentage of revenue % 7 % Interest expense $ (6) $ (4) (31) % Percentage of revenue % % * Not meaningful Interest income increased $141.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher cash and investment balances and higher interest rates. Our investment portfolio was largely invested in money market funds and short-term, high-quality bonds. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Other expense, net $ (2) $ (7) 274 % Percentage of revenue % % Other expense, net increased $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to impairment charges of $2.5 million related to an investment in a private company. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 11 $ 13 25 % The provision for income taxes increased primarily due to increased profitability and the accrual of interest on certain uncertain tax positions. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Conditions of Liquidity As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $10.6 billion. As of March 31, 2023, cash and cash equivalents totaled $8.2 billion, which included $2.5 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents consist of checking and interest-bearing accounts and highly-liquid securities with an original maturity of 90 days or less. As of March 31, 2023, short-term investments totaled $2.4 billion. Short-term investments primarily consist of certificates of deposit, U.S. government and government agency debt securities (government bonds), commercial paper, highly-liquid investment grade corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and time deposits. These amounts do not include funds of $7.8 billion as of March 31, 2023, that we held for bookings in advance of guests completing check-ins that we record separately on our condensed consolidated balance sheet in funds receivable and amounts held on behalf of customers with a corresponding liability in funds payable and amounts payable to customers. Our cash and cash equivalents are generally held at large global systemically important banks (or G-SIBs) which are subject to high capital requirements and must regularly perform stringent stress tests to prove their ability to absorb capital losses. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held outside the United States may be repatriated, subject to certain limitations, and would be available to be used to fund our domestic operations. However, repatriation of such funds may result in additional tax liabilities. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments balances in the United States are sufficient to fund our working capital needs in the United States. We have access to $1.0 billion of commitments and a $200.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit under the 2022 Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2023, no amounts were drawn under the 2022 Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled $28.5 million. Material Cash Requirements As of March 31, 2023, we had outstanding $2.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2026. On March 3, 2021, in connection with the pricing of the 2026 Notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions (the Capped Calls) with certain of the initial purchasers and other financial institutions (the "option counterparties") at a cost of approximately $100.2 million. The cap price of the Capped Calls was $360.80 per share of Class A common stock, which represented a premium of 100% over the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock of $180.40 per share on March 3, 2021, subject to certain customary adjustments under the terms of the Capped Call Transactions. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we repurchased and subsequently retired 4.0 million shares of our common stock for $492.7 million. As of March 31, 2023, we had $7.3 million available to repurchase shares pursuant to the share repurchase program. On May 8, 2023, our board of directors approved a new share repurchase program with authorization to purchase up to $2.5 billion of our Class A common stock at managements discretion. Share repurchases under the share repurchase program may be made through a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block trades or accelerated share repurchase transactions or by any combination of such methods. Any such repurchases will be made from time to time subject to market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at our discretion. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,202 $ 1,587 Net cash used in investing activities (197) (183) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,204 2,286 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 3 79 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 3,212 $ 3,769 Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $1.6 billion, which is due to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 of $116.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily consisting of $240.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. Additional cash was provided by changes in working capital, including a $989.1 million increase in unearned fees resulting from growth in bookings and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $225.5 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $182.8 million, which was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments of $1.1 billion, partially offset by proceeds resulting from sales and maturities of short-term investments of $917.3 million. 29 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $2.3 billion, primarily reflecting the increase in funds payable and amounts payable to customers of $2.9 billion resulting from growth in bookings, partially offset by our share repurchase of $492.7 million under the share repurchase program, and an increase in the taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $151.3 million. The effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash on our consolidated statements of cash flows relates to certain of our assets, principally cash balances held on behalf of customers, that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of certain of our subsidiaries. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded a $79.1 million increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar. The impact of exchange rate changes on cash balances can serve as a natural hedge for the effect of exchange rates on our liabilities to our guests and Hosts. We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our short- and long-term cash requirements. As such, we believe that the cash flows generated from operating activities will meet our anticipated cash requirements in the short-term. In addition to normal working capital requirements, we anticipate that our short- and long-term cash requirements will include share repurchases, introduction of new products and offerings, timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, debt repayments, and expansion of sales and marketing activities. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, headcount, and ability to attract and retain customers on our platform. Additionally, we may in the future raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to continue to fund our strategic initiatives. On a long-term basis, we would rely on either our access to the capital markets or our credit facility for any long-term funding not provided by operating cash flows and cash on hand. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may seek to raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked arrangements, and/or debt, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired and at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section titled "