Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures included in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for definitions of our key business metrics. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. As we seek to expand our community globally, we face competition in attracting Hosts and guests. Competition for Hosts We compete to attract and retain Hosts to and on our platform to list their homes and experiences, as Hosts have a range of options for doing so. We compete for Hosts based on many factors including the volume of bookings generated by guests, ease of use of our platform, the service fees we charge, Host protections, such as those included in AirCover for Hosts, and our brand. Competition for Guests We compete to attract and retain guests to and on our platform, as guests have a range of options to find and book accommodations and experiences. We compete for guests based on many factors, including unique inventory and availability of listings, the value and all-in cost of Host offerings on our platform relative to other options, our brand, ease of use of our platform, the trust and safety of our platform, and community support. Our competitors include: Online travel agencies (OTAs), such as Booking Holdings (including the brands Booking.com, KAYAK, Priceline.com, and Agoda.com), Expedia Group (including the brands Expedia, Vrbo, HomeAway, Hotels.com, Orbitz, and Travelocity), Trip.com Group (including the brands Ctrip.com, Trip.com, Qunar, Tongcheng-eLong, and SkyScanner), Hopper, Fliggy (a subsidiary of Alibaba), Despegar, MakeMyTrip, and other regional OTAs; Internet search engines, such as Google, including its travel search products, Baidu, and other regional search engines; Listing and meta search websites, such as TripAdvisor, Trivago, Mafengwo, AllTheRooms.com, Hometogo, Holidu, and Craigslist; Hotel chains, such as Marriott, Hilton, Accor, Wyndham, InterContinental, OYO, and Huazhu, as well as boutique hotel chains and independent hotels; Property management companies, such as Vacasa, Sonder, Inspirato, Evolve, Awaze, and other regional property management companies; and Online platforms offering experiences, such as Viator, GetYourGuide, Klook, Traveloka, TUI Musement, and KKDay. Our Intellectual Property Our intellectual property is an important component of our business. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, social media handles, know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other intellectual property and contractual rights. We have a substantial patent portfolio, consisting of issued patents and pending patent applications (patent assets) from the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. The portfolio includes both organically grown and acquired patent assets. We own a trademark portfolio with protections in 170 countries in which we currently operate for our primary brands AIRBNB and our Blo logo. Additionally, we own trademark protections around the world for other brands or protectable brand elements important to our business, including but 6 Table of Contents not limited to Rausch, our primary corporate color, localizations, translations, and transliterations of our primary brands, and brands associated with businesses we have acquired. We have registered domain names that we use in or relate to our business, such as the airbnb.com domain name and country code top level domain name equivalents. Available Information Our website address is www.airbnb.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) are also available free of charge on our investor relations website (investors.airbnb.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We webcast our quarterly results calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, and press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations, and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the trading price of our Class A common stock. The following material factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors, and oral statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue growth rate has slowed over time, and we expect it to continue to slow in the future. We have experienced significant revenue growth in the past; however, our revenue growth rate has slowed over time and there is no assurance that historic growth rates will return. Our future revenue growth depends on the growth of supply and demand for listings on our platform, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide as well as trends in the global travel and hospitality industries and the short and long-term accommodation regulatory landscape. In addition, we believe that our revenue growth depends upon a number of factors, including: global macroeconomic conditions, including inflation and rising interest rates and recessionary concerns; our ability to retain and grow the number of guests and Nights and Experiences Booked; our ability to retain and grow the number of Hosts and the number of available listings on our platform; events beyond our control such as pandemics and other health concerns, restrictions on travel and immigration, political, social or economic instability, including international disputes, war, or terrorism, trade disputes, economic downturns, and the impact of climate change on travel including the availability of preferred destinations and the increase in the frequency and severity of weather-related events, including fires, floods, droughts, extreme temperatures and ambient temperature increases, severe weather, and other natural disasters, and the impact of other climate change on seasonal destinations; competition; the legal and regulatory landscape and changes in the application of existing laws and regulations or adoption of new laws and regulations that impact our business, Hosts, and/or guests, including changes in short-term occupancy, tax laws, and real estate broker laws; the attractiveness of home sharing to prospective Hosts and guests; the level of consumer awareness and perception of our brand; our ability to build and strengthen trust and safety on our platform and among members of our community; the level of spending on brand and performance marketing to attract Hosts and guests to our platform; our ability to grow new offerings and to deepen our presence in certain geographies; timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades to our platform and infrastructure; and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A softening of demand, whether caused by events outside of our control, challenging macroeconomic and political conditions, changes in Host and guest preferences, public health crises such as pandemics, and any of the other factors described above, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or otherwise, may result in decreased revenue and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. If we fail to retain existing Hosts or add new Hosts, or if Hosts fail to provide high-quality stays and experiences, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on Hosts maintaining their listings on our platform and engaging in practices that encourage guests to book those listings, including increasing the number of nights and experiences that are available to book, providing timely responses to inquiries from guests, offering a variety of desirable and differentiated listings at competitive prices that meet the expectations of guests, and offering exceptional hospitality, services, and experiences to guests. These practices are outside of our direct control. If Hosts do not establish or maintain a sufficient number of listings and availability for listings, the number of Nights and Experiences Booked declines for a particular period, or the price charged by Hosts declines, our revenue would decline and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Hosts manage and control their spaces and experiences and typically market them on our platform with no obligation to make them available to guests for specified dates and with no obligation to accept bookings from prospective guests. We have had many Hosts list their properties on our platform in one period and cease to offer these properties in subsequent periods for a variety of reasons. While we plan to continue to invest in our Host community and in tools to assist Hosts, these investments may not be successful in growing our Hosts and listings on our platform. In addition, Hosts may not establish or maintain listings if we cannot attract prospective guests to our platform and generate bookings from a large number of guests. If we are unable to retain existing Hosts or add new Hosts, or if Hosts elect to market their listings exclusively with a competitor or cross-list with a competitor, we may be unable to offer a sufficient supply and variety of properties or experiences to attract guests to use our platform. In particular, it is critical that we continue to attract and retain individual Hosts who list their spaces, including private rooms, primary homes, or vacation homes, on Airbnb. We attract individual Hosts predominantly through organic channels such as word of mouth and our strong brand recognition. If we are unable to attract and retain individual Hosts in a cost-effective manner, or at all, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Professional Hosts, including property management companies, serviced apartment providers, and boutique hotels, expand the types of listings available to our guests. These professional Hosts often list on our platform as well as on the platforms of our competitors. We do not control whether professional Hosts provide us with a sizable allocation of rooms and competitive pricing relative to the same properties 8 Table of Contents listed with other services. If we are not able to effectively deploy professional tools, application programming interfaces, and payment processes, work with third-party channel managers, and develop effective sales and account management teams that address the needs of these professional Hosts, we may not be able to attract and retain professional Hosts. If our fee structure and payment terms are not as competitive as those of our competitors, these professional Hosts may choose to provide less inventory and availability with us. Historically, we have seen an increase in the number of, and revenue from, professional Hosts on our platform. The uniqueness of listings on our platform will be negatively impacted if the number of individual Hosts does not grow at the same rate. In addition, the number of listings on Airbnb may decline as a result of a number of other factors affecting Hosts, including: any pandemic; enforcement or threatened enforcement of laws and regulations, including short-term occupancy and tax laws; private groups, such as homeowners, landlords, and condominium and neighborhood associations, adopting and enforcing contracts that prohibit or restrict home sharing; leases, mortgages, and other agreements, or regulations that purport to ban or otherwise restrict home sharing; Hosts opting for long-term rentals on other third-party platforms as an alternative to listing on our platform; economic, social, and political factors; perceptions of trust and safety on and off our platform; negative experiences with guests, including guests who damage Host property, throw unauthorized parties, or engage in violent and unlawful acts; and our decision to remove Hosts from our platform for not adhering to our Host standards or other factors we deem detrimental to our community. We believe that our Host protection programs, including those provided through AirCover for Hosts, are integral to retaining and acquiring Hosts. AirCover for Hosts includes but is not limited to our Host Damage Protection program, which protects Hosts against guest property damage of up to $3 million, and our Host Liability Insurance and Experiences Liability Insurance, which provide liability insurance of up to $1 million, to protect our Hosts against qualifying third-party claims for personal injury or property damage. If we discontinue these programs or these programs prove less effective, whether because our payouts under these programs or our insurance premiums become cost prohibitive or for any other reason, then the number of Hosts who list with us may decline. Hosts and guests whose reservations are canceled under our extenuating circumstances policy have had and may continue to have a negative view of our policy and may experience negative financial impacts as a result of such cancellations. This could materially negatively impact our relationship with our Hosts and guests, resulting in Hosts leaving our platform, removing their listings, and/or offering less availability, or fewer repeat guests, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to retain existing guests or add new guests, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on existing guests continuing to book and attracting new guests to book on our platform. Our ability to attract and retain guests could be materially adversely affected by a number of factors discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including: events beyond our control such as pandemics and health concerns, restrictions on travel, immigration, trade disputes, economic downturns, and the impact of climate change on travel including the availability of preferred destinations and the increase in the frequency and severity of weather-related events, including fires, floods, droughts, extreme temperatures and ambient temperature increases, severe weather and other natural disasters, and the impact of other climate change on seasonal destinations; political, social, or economic instability in the United States or globally; Hosts failing to meet guests expectations; increased competition and use of our competitors platforms and services; Hosts failing to provide differentiated, high-quality, and an adequate supply of stays or experiences at competitive prices; guests not receiving timely and adequate community support from us; our failure to provide new or enhanced offerings or features that guests value; declines or inefficiencies in our marketing efforts; negative associations with, or reduced awareness of, our brand; actual or perceived discrimination by Hosts in deciding whether to accept a requested reservation; negative perceptions of the trust and safety on our platform; and macroeconomic and other conditions outside of our control affecting travel and hospitality industries generally. In addition, if our platform is not easy to navigate, guests have an unsatisfactory sign-up, search, booking, or payment experience on our platform, the listings and other content provided on our platform is not displayed effectively to guests, we are not effective in engaging guests across our various offerings, or we fail to provide an experience in a manner that meets rapidly changing demand, we could fail to convert first-time guests and fail to engage with existing guests, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our new offerings and initiatives are unsuccessful, we may fail to grow, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We continue to invest in the development of new offerings and initiatives, including innovations focused on improving our Host and guest experiences. Developing and delivering these new offerings and initiatives increase our expenses and our organizational complexity, and we may experience difficulties in developing and implementing these new offerings and initiatives. Our new offerings and initiatives have a high degree of risk, as they may involve unproven businesses with which we have limited or no prior development or operating experience. There can be no assurance that our Hosts and guests will adopt or respond positively to such offerings and initiatives, that we will be able to successfully manage the development and delivery of such offerings and initiatives, or that any of these offerings or initiatives will help attract and retain users on our platform and gain sufficient market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset associated expenses or liabilities. It is also possible that offerings developed by others will render our offerings 9 Table of Contents and initiatives noncompetitive or obsolete. Further, these efforts entail investments in our systems and infrastructure, payments platform, and increased legal and regulatory compliance expenses, could distract management from current operations, and will divert capital and other resources from our more established offerings and initiatives. Even if we are successful in developing new offerings and initiatives, regulatory authorities may subject us or our Hosts and guests to new rules, taxes, or restrictions or more aggressively enforce existing rules, taxes, or restrictions, that could increase our expenses or prevent us from successfully commercializing these initiatives. If we do not realize the expected benefits of our investments in new offerings and initiatives, we may fail to grow and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Any decline or disruption in the travel and hospitality industries or economic downturn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our financial performance is dependent on the strength of the travel and hospitality industries. Events beyond our control, such as unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, tsunamis, floods, severe weather, droughts, extreme temperatures and ambient temperature increases, and volcanic eruptions, the frequency and severity of which may be increasingly impacted by climate change in future years (although it is currently impossible to predict with accuracy the scale of such impact), and travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, and COVID-19, trade or immigration policies, wars, such as the ongoing military action between Russia and Ukraine or in the Middle East, terrorist attacks, sources of political uncertainty, political unrest, protests, violence in connection with political or social events, foreign policy changes, regional hostilities, flight capacity restrictions, immigration restrictions (including backlogs on passport renewals or limitations on visa grants), imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in regulations, policies, or conditions related to physical climate change-related impacts, including chronic and acute climate-related impacts and climate-related migration, sustainability-related conditions, work stoppages, labor unrest, or travel-related accidents can disrupt travel globally or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because many of these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our platform and services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, increasing awareness of the impact of air travel on climate change and the impact of over-tourism may adversely impact the travel and hospitality industries and demand for our platform and services, whether due to the imposition of policies and regulations or changing societal attitudes towards travel. Additionally, the impact of macroeconomic conditions, including adverse economic conditions, are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Our financial performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending. Some of the factors that have an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, worldwide or regional recession, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, tariffs, and other macroeconomic factors. Additional adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession, higher interest rates, high unemployment, and currency fluctuations can adversely affect consumer confidence in spending and materially adversely affect the demand for travel or similar experiences. Additionally, consumer confidence and spending can be materially adversely affected in response to financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, declines in income or asset values, energy shortages or cost increases, labor and healthcare costs, and other economic factors. These factors may affect demand for our offerings, and uncertainty about global or regional economic conditions can also have a negative adverse impact on the number of Hosts and guests who use our platform. Consumer preferences tend to shift to lower-cost alternatives during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected, which could lead to a decline in the bookings and prices for stays and experiences on our platform and an increase in cancellations, and thus result in lower revenue. Leisure travel in particular, which accounts for a substantial majority of our current business, is dependent on discretionary consumer spending levels. Downturns in worldwide or regional economic conditions have led to a general decrease in leisure travel and travel spending in the past, and similar downturns in the future may materially adversely impact demand for our platform and services. Such a shift in consumer behavior would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The business and industry in which we participate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we face significant competition in attracting Hosts and guests. Hosts. We compete to attract, engage, and retain Hosts on our platform to list their spaces and experiences. Hosts have a range of options for listing their spaces and experiences, both online and offline. It is also common for Hosts to cross-list their offerings. We compete for Hosts based on many factors, including the volume of bookings generated by our guests; ease of use of our platform (including onboarding, community support, and payments); the service fees we charge; Host protections, such as our Host Liability Insurance, Experiences Liability Insurance, and Host Damage Protection program; and our brand. Guests. We compete to attract, engage, and retain guests on our platform. Guests have a range of options to find and book spaces, hotel rooms, serviced apartments, and other accommodations and experiences, both online and offline. We compete for guests based on many factors, including unique inventory and availability of listings, the value and all-in cost of our offerings relative to other options, our brand, ease of use of our platform, the relevance and personalization of search results, the trust and safety of our platform, and community support. We believe that our competitors include: OTAs such as Booking Holdings (including the brands Booking.com, KAYAK, Priceline.com, and Agoda.com), Expedia Group (including the brands Expedia, Vrbo, HomeAway, Hotels.com, Orbitz, and Travelocity), Trip.com Group (including the brands Ctrip.com, Trip.com, Qunar, Tongcheng-eLong, and SkyScanner), Hopper, Fliggy (a subsidiary of Alibaba), Despegar, MakeMyTrip, and other regional OTAs; 10 Table of Contents Internet search engines, such as Google, including its travel search products, Baidu, and other regional search engines; Listing and meta search websites, such as TripAdvisor, Trivago, Mafengwo, AllTheRooms.com, Hometogo, Holidu, and Craigslist; Hotel chains, such as Marriott, Hilton, Accor, Wyndham, InterContinental, OYO, and Huazhu, as well as boutique hotel chains and independent hotels; Property management companies, such as Vacasa, Sonder, Inspirato, Evolve, Awaze, and other regional property management companies; and Online platforms offering experiences, such as Viator, GetYourGuide, Klook, Traveloka, TUI Musement, and KKDay. Our competitors are adopting aspects of our business model, which could affect our ability to differentiate our offerings from competitors. Increased competition could result in reduced demand for our platform from Hosts and guests, slow our growth, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name and brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, and loyalty programs, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. In addition, our current or potential competitors have access to larger user bases and/or inventory for accommodations, and may provide multiple travel products, including flights. As a result, our competitors may be able to provide consumers with a better or more complete product experience and respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or Host and guest requirements or preferences. The global travel industry has experienced significant consolidation, and we expect this trend may continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in a highly competitive industry. Consolidation amongst our competitors will give them increased scale and may enhance their capacity, abilities, and resources, and lower their cost structures. In addition, emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and focus on developing a new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new offerings or technologies before we do. There are now numerous competing companies that offer homes for booking, which may be cross-listed on our platform, listed on competing platforms, and/or available through direct booking sites. Some of these competitors also aggregate property listings obtained through various sources, including the websites of property managers. Some of our Hosts have chosen to cross-list their properties, which reduces the availability of such properties on our platform. When properties are cross-listed, the price paid by guests on our platform may be or may appear to be less competitive for a number of reasons, including differences in fee structure and policies, which may cause guests to book through other services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Certain property managers reach out to our Hosts and guests to incentivize them to list or book directly with them and bypass our platform, and certain Hosts may encourage transactions outside of our platform, which reduces the use of our platform and services. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have more established or varied relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by entering the travel and accommodations businesses. For example, some competitors or potential competitors are creating super-apps where consumers can use many online services without leaving that companys app, e.g., in particular regions, such as Asia, where e-commerce transactions are conducted primarily through apps on mobile devices. If any of these platforms are successful in offering services similar to ours to consumers, or if we are unable to offer our services to consumers within these super-apps, our customer acquisition efforts could be less effective and our customer acquisition costs, including our brand and performance marketing expenses, could increase, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We also face increasing competition from search engines including Google. How Google presents travel search results, and its promotion of its own travel meta-search services, such as Google Travel and Google Vacation Rental Ads, or similar actions from other search engines, and their practices concerning search rankings, could decrease our search traffic, increase traffic acquisition costs, and/or disintermediate our platform. These parties can also offer their own comprehensive travel planning and booking tools, or refer leads directly to suppliers, other favored partners, or themselves, which could also disintermediate our platform. In addition, if Google or Apple use their own mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own or other preferred travel service offerings, or impose policies that effectively disallow us to continue our full product offerings in those channels, it could materially adversely affect our ability to engage with Hosts and guests who access our platform via mobile apps or search. We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and rules applicable to short-term rental and home sharing businesses, or that govern our business practices, including among others, e-commerce, data privacy, advertising, consumer protection, employment law, and commercial practices. Such laws and regulations are complex, evolving, and sometimes inconsistent and have limited and may continue to limit the ability or willingness of Hosts to share their spaces through our platform and expose our users or us to regulatory inquiries, litigation or other disputes and to significant liabilities, including taxes, compliance costs, fines, and criminal or other penalties, which have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Hosts list, and guests search for, stays and experiences on our platform in more than 220 countries and regions across the globe. There are national, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations in jurisdictions that relate to or affect our business and, since we began our operations in 2008, there have been and continue to be legal and regulatory developments and inconsistent or ambiguous interpretations among local, regional, or national laws or regulations that affect the short-term rental, long-term rental, and home sharing business. Compliance Costs Compliance with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing varying standards and requirements is burdensome for businesses like ours, imposes added cost and increases potential liability to our business, and makes it difficult to realize business efficiencies and economies of scale. For example, we incur significant operational costs to comply with requirements of jurisdictions and cities that have disparate requirements around tax collection, tax reporting, Host registration, limits on lengths of stays, and other regulations, each of which require us to dedicate significant resources to provide the infrastructure and tools needed on our platform for our Hosts to meet these legal requirements and for us to fulfill any obligations we may have. Environmental, health, and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs, and our Hosts costs, to comply with such requirements may increase as a result. The complexity of our 11 Table of Contents platform and changes required to comply with the large number of disparate requirements can lead to compliance gaps if our internal resources cannot keep up with the pace of regulatory change and new requirements imposed on our platform, or if our platform does not work as intended or has errors or bugs. Additionally, new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could further affect the operation of our Hosts properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. It may be difficult or impossible for us to investigate or evaluate laws or regulations in all cities, countries, and regions. The application of existing laws and regulations to our business and platform can be unclear and may be difficult for Hosts, guests, and us to understand and apply, and are subject to change, as governments or government agencies seek to apply legacy systems of laws or adopt new laws to new online business models in the travel and accommodations industries, including ours. Uncertain and unclear application of such laws and regulations to Host and guest activity and our platform could cause and has caused some Hosts and guests to leave or choose not to use our platform, reduce supply and demand for our platform and services, increase the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, and increase the threat of litigation or enforcement actions related to our platform, all of which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See our risk factor titled We could face liability for information or content on or accessible through our platform. There are laws that apply to us, and there are laws that apply to our Hosts and/or guests. While we require our Hosts and guests to comply with their own independent legal obligations under our terms of service, we have limited means of enforcing or ensuring the compliance of our Hosts and guests with all applicable legal requirements. Sometimes governments try to hold us responsible for laws that apply to our Hosts and/or guests. Whether applicable to us, our Hosts, and/or our guests, the related consequences arising out of such laws and regulations, including penalties for violations of and costs to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. See our risk factor titled Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. With respect to online payment services, in June 2023 the European Commission proposed replacing the current Payment Services Directive (PSD2) with a new directive on the same topic (PSD3) and a new regulation on the same (PSR). The European Commission in parallel proposed a Financial Data Access Regulation (FIDA). PSD3 and the PSR will include amendments to strong customer authentication and anti-fraud obligations amongst other day to day requirements, and FIDA requires data holders (including payment institutions and EMIs) to provide customer data, including both personal and non-personal data to other data holders. PSD3, the PSR and FIDA are still in draft, however when finalized and in-force, they may increase our compliance costs and require additional resources as well as changes to our processes and operations. In addition, in January 2023, the UK HM Treasury published a review of the UK Payment Services Regulations 2017 (UK PSR) and call for evidence. The review and call for evidence contained minimal information on areas of reform, other than a handful of areas including strong customer authentication requirements, information requirements regarding currency conversion charges, and notice provisions for the termination of customer contracts. Should the UK decide to reform the UK PSR, this may increase our compliance costs and require additional resources as well as changes to our processes and operations. We take certain measures to comply, and to help Hosts comply with laws and regulations, such as requiring registration numbers to be displayed on a listing profile for listings in some jurisdictions where such registration is required. These measures, changes to them, and any future measures we adopt could increase friction on our platform, and reduce the number of listings available on our platform from Hosts and bookings by guests, and could reduce the activity of Hosts and guests on our platform. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations which could require significant changes to our platform that discourage Hosts and guests from using our platform. Furthermore, if we become more involved in Hosts listings and conduct related to bookings, then we are more likely to draw scrutiny and additional regulations from governments and undercut various defenses we may have to claims or attempts to regulate us, which further constrain our business and impose additional liability on us as a platform. Regulatory Developments Hotels and groups affiliated with hotels have engaged and will likely continue to engage in various lobbying and political efforts for stricter regulations governing our business in both local and national jurisdictions. Other private groups, such as homeowners, landlords, and condominium and neighborhood associations, have adopted contracts or regulations that purport to ban or otherwise restrict short-term rentals, and third-party lease agreements between landlords and tenants, home insurance policies, and mortgages may prevent or restrict the ability of Hosts to list their spaces. These groups and others cite concerns around affordable housing and over-tourism in major cities among other issues, and some state and local governments have implemented or considered implementing rules, ordinances, or regulations governing the short-term or long-term rental of properties and/or home sharing. Legislation could have a material impact on the way short-term and long-term rentals are regulated. Such regulations include ordinances that restrict or ban Hosts from short-term rentals or long-term rentals, set annual caps on the number of days Hosts can share their homes, require Hosts to register with the municipality or city, or require Hosts to obtain permission before offering short-term rentals, or impose obligations on us to assist in the enforcement of these regulations. For example, in New York City a law enacted in 2022 limits the properties that can host short-term rentals. It also contains several new obligations for short-term rental hosts and platforms. Existing, and changes to, laws and regulations such as these may limit Hosts ability and willingness to list on our platform and may result in significant fines, liabilities, and penalties to the Company. In addition, some jurisdictions regard short-term rental or home sharing as hotel use and claim that such use constitutes a conversion of a residential property to a commercial property. Macroeconomic pressures and public policy concerns could continue to lead to new laws and regulations, or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or widespread enforcement actions that limit the ability of Hosts to share their spaces or impose obligations upon us. For example, the European Unions regulation on short-term rentals (the EU STR Regulation) is expected to enter into force in April 2024 and EU member states will have two years to give effect to the new rules under the regulation. The EU STR Regulation includes steps to enhance the transparency of certain host information on platforms (such as host registration numbers where required locally) and monthly reporting by platforms to local authorities (including, for example, host information, length of stay, and number of guests). The EU STR Regulation could have a material impact on the way short-term rentals are regulated in the European Union and will require us to invest additional resources to assess our compliance and make appropriate 12 Table of Contents adjustments in order to comply with its requirements. If laws, regulations, rules, or agreements significantly restrict or discourage Hosts in certain jurisdictions from sharing their properties, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. While a number of cities and countries have implemented legislation to address short-term rentals, there are many others that are not yet explicitly addressing or enforcing short-term rental or long-term rental laws, and could follow suit and enact regulations with direct requirements on platforms such as Airbnb. New laws, regulations, government policies, or changes in their interpretations entail significant challenges and uncertainties. In the event of any such changes, pre-existing bookings may not be honored and current and future listings and bookings could decline significantly, and our relationship with our Hosts and guests could be negatively impacted, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, if new regulations requiring us to share Host data with governmental organizations or to ensure that Hosts have a registration or permit number before publishing their listings or some other form of regulation are implemented, our revenue from listings there may be substantially reduced due to the departure from our platform of Hosts who do not wish to share their data or to obtain a registration or permit number. A reduction in supply and cancellations could make our platform less attractive to guests, and any reduction in the number of guests could further reduce the number of Hosts on our platform. While we seek to work with governments, we have in the past been, and are likely in the future to become, involved in disputes with government agencies regarding laws and regulations. For example, some governments have attempted to impose fines on us regarding what they contend is illegal offering of short-term accommodations in violation of applicable laws. Certain jurisdictions have adopted laws and regulations that seek to impose various types of taxes, including lodging taxes, often known as transient or occupancy taxes, on our guests, collection and remittance obligations on our Hosts and/or us, and withholding obligations on us, as more fully described in our risk factor titled Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our Hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage Hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform and Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some third parties and regulators have asserted and may in the future assert that we, through our operations, are subject to regulations with respect to short-term rentals, Host registration, licensing, and other requirements for the listing of accommodations and experiences, such as real estate broker or agent licenses, travel agency licenses, e-commerce platform operator, and insurance-related licenses. We could be held liable and incur significant financial and potential criminal penalties if we are found to have violated any of these regulations. In certain jurisdictions, we have resolved disputes concerning the application of these laws and regulations by agreeing, among other things, to remove listings from our platform at the request of government entities, to require Hosts to enter a permit or registration number or take other action before publishing listings on our platform, to share certain data with government agencies to assist in the enforcement of limits on short-term or long-term rentals as well as the enforcement of safety regulations, and to implement measures to confirm to the government that Hosts are operating in compliance with applicable law. When a government agency seeks to apply laws and regulations in a manner that limits or curtails Hosts or guests ability or willingness to list and search for accommodations in that particular geography, we have attempted and may continue to attempt through litigation or other means to defend against such application of laws and regulations, but have sometimes been and may continue to be unsuccessful in certain of those efforts. Further, if we or our Hosts and guests were required to comply with laws and regulations, government requests, or agreements with government agencies that adversely impact our relations with Hosts and guests, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, if we enter an agreement with a government or governmental agency to resolve a dispute, the terms of such agreement may be publicly available and could create a precedent that may lead to similar disputes in other jurisdictions and may put us in a weaker bargaining position in future disputes with other governments. In addition to laws and regulations directly applicable to the short-term rental, long-term rental, and home sharing business, we are subject to laws and regulations governing the provision of online payment services and insurance services, the design and operation of our platform, and the operations, characteristics, and quality of our platform and services. As a result of such laws and regulations in connection with our insurance services, from time to time we are subject to review, inquiries or examinations by local insurance regulators to ensure compliance with such rules and regulations, including licensing requirements. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing our business practices, the Internet, e-commerce, and electronic devices, including those relating to taxation, data privacy, data security, pricing, content, advertising, discrimination, consumer protection, protection of minors, copyrights, distribution, messaging, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts, communications, Internet access, competition, and unfair commercial practices as well as federal, state, local, and foreign laws regulating employment, employee working conditions, including wage and hour laws, employment dispute and employee bargaining processes, collective and representative actions, employment classification, and other employment compliance requirements. Violation of these laws could subject the company to fines and penalties, including in some cases, criminal penalties. There is also increased governmental interest in regulating technology companies in areas including platform content, data privacy, data security, intellectual property protection, ethical marketing, tax, data localization and data access, AI or algorithm-based bias or discrimination, competition, and real estate broker related activities. In addition, increasing governmental interest in, and public awareness of, the impacts and effects of climate change and greater emphasis on sustainability by federal, state, and international governments could lead to further regulatory efforts to address the carbon impact of housing and travel, which risks are more fully described in our risk factor titled Growing focus on evolving environmental, social, and governance issues (ESG) by shareholders, customers, regulators, politicians, employees, and other stakeholders may impose additional risks and costs on our business. Any new or existing laws and regulations applicable to existing or future business areas, including amendments to or repeal of existing laws and regulations, or new interpretations, applications, or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and/or civil or criminal penalties, and materially adversely impact bookings on our platform, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our efforts to influence legislative and regulatory proposals have an uncertain chance of success, could be limited by laws regulating lobbying or advocacy activity in certain jurisdictions, and even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming, and could divert the attention of management from operations. 13 Table of Contents Regulatory Inquiries, Litigation & Disputes We have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to legal and regulatory claims, litigation or pre-litigation disputes, and proceedings arising in the normal course of business, including various government inquiries, investigations, audits, and proceedings related to legal and regulatory requirements such as compliance with laws related to short-term rentals, long-term rentals, and home sharing, tax, escheatment, insurance services, employee related claims, consumer protection, pricing and currency display, advertising, discrimination, data sharing, payment processing, data privacy, data security, cancellation policies, and competition. In many cases, these inquiries, investigations, and proceedings can be complex, time consuming, costly to investigate, and require significant company and also management attention. For certain matters, we are implementing recommended changes to our products, operations, and compliance practices, including enabling tax collection, tax reporting, display of Host registration numbers, and removal of noncompliant listings. As our Company has grown larger, the number of bookings on our platform and brand awareness has increased, and the scope and complexity of our business have expanded, the number and significance of these claims, disputes, and proceedings have increased and we expect will continue to increase. We are unable to predict the outcomes and implications of such inquiries, investigations, and proceedings on our business, and such inquiries, investigations, and proceedings could result in damages, large fines and penalties, and require changes to our products and operations, and materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. In some instances, applicable laws and regulations do not yet exist or are being adopted and implemented to address certain aspects of our business, and such adoption or change in their interpretation could further alter or impact our business and subject us to future government inquiries, investigations, and proceedings. We have been involved in litigation with national governments, trade associations and industry bodies, municipalities, and other government authorities, including as a plaintiff and as a defendant, concerning laws seeking to limit or outlaw short-term and long-term rentals and to impose obligations or liability on us as a platform. In the United States, we have been involved in various lawsuits concerning whether our platform is responsible for alleged wrongful conduct by Hosts who engage in short-term rentals. Claims in such cases have alleged illegal hotel conversions, real estate license requirements, violations of municipal law around short-term occupancy or rentals, unlawful evictions, or violations of lease provisions or homeowners association rules. Legal claims have been asserted for alleged discriminatory conduct undertaken by Hosts against certain guests, and for our own platform policies or business practices. Changes to the interpretation of the applicability of fair housing, civil rights, or other statutes to our business or the conduct of our users could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as U.S. laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), the Stored Communications Act, and the Communications Decency Act (CDA), and non-U.S. laws such as the Digital Services Act (DSA), the EU STR Regulation and the European E-Commerce Directive and their national transpositions are interpreted by the courts or otherwise modified or amended, as our platform and services to our Hosts and guests continue to expand, and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. In addition, we face claims and litigation relating to fatalities, shootings, other violent acts, illness (including COVID-19), cancellations and refunds, personal injuries, property damage, carbon monoxide incidents, hidden camera incidents, and privacy violations that occurred at listings or experiences during a booking made on our platform. We also have had putative class action litigation and government inquiries, and could face additional litigation and government inquiries and fines relating to our business practices, cancellations, and other consequences due to natural disasters or other unforeseen events beyond our control. Laws and government initiatives within the European Union have been attempting to regulate online platforms, including Airbnb. In several cases, national courts are evaluating whether certain local rules imposing obligations on platforms can be enforced against us. Most recently, the DSA came into force in November 2022, amending certain aspects of the E-Commerce Directive, and imposing on online platforms a number of content moderation and transparency obligations as of February 2024. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, disputes may arise because we are alleged to have infringed third parties intellectual property or in which we agree to provide indemnification to third parties with respect to certain matters, including losses arising from our breach of such agreements or from intellectual property infringement claims, or where we make other contractual commitments to third parties. We also have indemnification agreements with certain of our directors, executive officers, and certain other employees that require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We may be subject to litigation stemming from these obligations. We are also subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheatment) laws which require us to turn over to government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a period specified by such laws, as well as audits by government authorities regarding our escheatment practices, which may result in additional escheatment of unclaimed property and payment of interest and penalties. The laws governing unclaimed property matters are complex and subject to varying interpretations by companies and government authorities. An unfavorable audit could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. Adverse results in any regulatory inquiry, litigation, legal proceedings, audit, or claims may include awards of potentially significant monetary damages, including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions, penalties, civil and criminal fines, compensation orders, injunctive relief, royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain services. Moreover, many regulatory inquiries, litigation, legal proceedings, or claims are resolved by settlements that can include both monetary and nonmonetary components. Adverse results or settlements may result in changes in our business practices in significant ways, increased operating and compliance costs, and a loss of revenue. In addition, any litigation or pre-litigation claims against us, whether or not meritorious, are time consuming, require substantial expense, and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. Moreover, our insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. As we continue to grow, regulatory inquiries, litigation, legal proceedings, and other claims will continue to consume significant Company resources and adverse results in future matters could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully expand our global network or manage the risks presented by our business model internationally, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We are a global platform with Hosts in more than 220 countries and regions and over 100,000 cities and towns, and a global guest community. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 3,000 employees located outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2023, 57% of our revenue was generated from listings outside of the United States. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our international operations, however there can be no assurance that our international expansion efforts will be successful or result in revenue growth. Managing a global organization is difficult, time consuming, and expensive, and requires significant management attention and careful prioritization, and any international expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks, which include: operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences; the cost and resources required to localize our platform and services, which often requires the translation of our platform into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; unexpected, restrictive, differing, and conflicting laws and regulations, including those laws governing Internet activities, short-term and long-term rentals (including those implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic), tourism, tenancy, taxes, licensing, payments processing, messaging, marketing activities, registration and/or verification of guests, ownership of intellectual property, content, data collection and privacy, security, data localization, data transfer and government access to personal information, and other activities important to our business; uncertainties regarding the interpretation of national and local laws and regulations, uncertainty in the enforceability of legal rights, and uneven application of laws and regulations to businesses, in particular U.S. companies; competition with companies that understand local markets better than we do, or that have a local presence and pre-existing relationships with potential Hosts and guests in those markets; differing levels of social acceptance of home sharing, our brand, and offerings; legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings, the services, and content provided by Hosts, guests, and other third parties; uncertain resolutions of litigation or regulatory inquiries; variations in payment forms for Hosts and guests, increased operational complexity around payments, and inability to offer local payment forms like cash or country specific digital forms of payment; lack of familiarity and the burden of complying with a wide variety of U.S. and foreign laws, legal standards, and regulatory requirements, which are complex, sometimes inconsistent, and subject to unexpected changes; potentially adverse tax consequences, including resulting from the complexities of foreign corporate income tax systems, value added tax (VAT) regimes, tax withholding rules, lodging taxes, often known as transient or occupancy taxes, hotel taxes, and other indirect taxes, tax collection or remittance obligations, and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, including due to differences in legal, regulatory, and collective bargaining processes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and in particular, decreases in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; regulations governing the control of local currencies and impacting the ability to collect and remit funds to Hosts in those currencies or to repatriate cash into the United States; oversight by foreign government agencies whose approach to privacy or human rights may be inconsistent with that taken in other countries; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens, and complexities and difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls in an international operating environment; political, social, and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks, and security concerns in general; operating in countries that are more prone to crime or have lower safety standards; operating in countries that have higher risk of corruption; and reduced or varied protection for our intellectual property rights in some countries. Increased operating expenses, decreased revenue, negative publicity, negative reaction from our Hosts and guests and other stakeholders, or other adverse impacts from any of the above factors or other risks related to our international operations could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, we will continue to incur significant expenses to operate our outbound business in China, and we may never achieve profitability in that market. These factors, combined with sentiment of the workforce in China, and Chinas policy towards foreign direct investment may particularly impact our operations in China. In addition, we need to ensure that our business practices in China are compliant with local laws and regulations, which may be interpreted and enforced in ways that are different from our interpretation, and/or create obligations on us that are costly to meet or conflict with laws in other jurisdictions and which may not be implemented within regulatory timelines. We are subject to various requirements and requests from government agencies to share information on users who use services in China through our platform. Failure to comply with such requests or other requirements as interpreted by government agencies may lead to impairment or disruption to our business and operations, including failing to obtain or losing the necessary licenses to operate in China, the blocking of our platform and services in China, and/or enforcement action against our community, corporate entities, or officers. Our failure to comply with such requests or requirements, or conversely our compliance with such requests or requirements, could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Further, given that our headquarters is in the United States, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China bilateral relations or escalation of geo-political risk in China could adversely affect our outbound business in China. The Chinese government has adopted laws, regulations, and implementation measures that govern the dissemination of content over the Internet and data processing in China. These impose additional requirements for certain categories of operators, and are continuing to develop and be clarified. At this point, it is uncertain what obligations will apply to us in the future, and we cannot predict what impact these new laws and regulations or the increased costs of compliance, if any, will have on our operations in China. Actions by the U.S. government 15 Table of Contents could also impair our ability to effectively operate in China, including through the use of Executive Orders or trade blacklists to ban or limit the use of services provided by Chinese third parties. We conduct our business in China through a variable interest entity (VIE) and a wholly-foreign owned entity. We do not own shares in our VIE and instead rely on contractual arrangements with the equity holders of our VIE to operate our business in China because foreign investment is restricted or prohibited. Under our contractual arrangements, we must rely on the VIE and the VIE equity holders to perform their obligations in order to exercise our control over the VIE. The VIE equity holders may have conflicts of interest with us or our stockholders, and they may not act in our best interests or may not perform their obligations under these contracts. If our VIE or its equity holders fail to perform their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may not be able to enforce our rights. In addition, if the Chinese government deems that the contractual arrangements in relation to our VIE do not comply with Chinese governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or their interpretation changes in the future, we could be subject to penalties, be forced to cease our operations in China, or be subject to restrictions in the future, and we may incur additional compliance costs. The contractual arrangements with our VIE may also be subject to scrutiny by the Chinese tax authorities and any adjustment of related party transaction pricing could lead to additional taxes. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes (including indirect taxes), are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (the IRA) was signed into law in the United States. Among other changes, the IRA introduced a corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on certain corporations with average adjusted financial statement income over a three-tax year period in excess of $1 billion, and an excise tax on certain stock repurchases by certain covered corporations for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022. We may be subject to a material amount of CAMT in the next several years but expect to fully utilize the corresponding credits generated from the CAMT in the subsequent following years. The United States government may enact further significant changes to the taxation of business entities including, among other changes, an increase in the corporate income tax rate or significant changes to the taxation of income derived from international operations. The likelihood of these changes being enacted or implemented is unclear. In addition, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and states, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries and states where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. For example, in Italy, a law enacted in 2017 purports to require short-term rental platforms that process payments to withhold and remit Host income tax and collect and remit tourist tax, amongst other obligations. On December 13, 2023, without admitting any liability, Airbnb Ireland signed an agreement with the Italian Revenue Agency in settlement of the 2017-2021 audit periods for an aggregate payment of 576 million Euro ($621 million). Such agreement settles a dispute about Airbnb Irelands obligations to withhold and remit Host income tax, including taxes, interest, and penalties, for those relevant periods. Airbnbs subsidiary in Italy and Airbnb Ireland continue to be, or could in the future be, subject to tax audits in Italy, including in relation to permanent establishment, transfer pricing, withholding obligations, and tourist taxes. Such audits could result in the imposition of additional potentially significant prior and future tax obligations. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (BEPS), and issued a report in 2015 and an interim report in 2018 detailing 15 key actions aimed at ensuring profits are taxed where the economic activities generating those profits are performed and where value is created. Work continues to be undertaken by the project with regard to each action, and new recommendations are regularly made, including proposed new legislation. Recent examples include the implementation of minimum standards in local legislation to neutralize the effects of hybrid mismatches and to appropriately tax controlled foreign companies. Proposals from the OECD can result in an increased tax burden for us in jurisdictions that adopt such proposals. More recently, BEPS 2.0 aims to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy, and in 2021, more than 140 countries tentatively signed on to a framework that imposes a minimum tax rate of 15%, among other provisions. As this framework is subject to further negotiation and implementation by each member country, the timing and ultimate impact of any such changes on our tax obligations are uncertain. Similarly, the European Commission and several countries have issued proposals that would change various aspects of the current tax framework under which we are taxed. These proposals include changes to the existing framework to calculate income tax, as well as proposals to change or impose new types of non-income taxes (including indirect taxes), including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. For example, France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, among others, have each proposed or enacted taxes applicable to digital services, which includes business activities on digital platforms and would likely apply to our business. In December 2022, the European Union unanimously agreed to implement the minimum tax rate legislation by December 31, 2023 in all EU member states. Several other countries including Australia, Canada, Colombia, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, and the United Kingdom have also committed to implement similar legislation within the same timeframe. This agreement, commonly referred to as Pillar Two, could result in future additional taxes that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax law provide preferential tax treatment that violates EU state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. These investigations may result in changes to the tax treatment of our foreign operations. Due to the large and increasing scale of our international business activities, many of these types of changes to the taxation of our activities described above and in our risk factor titled Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our Hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage Hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes (including indirect taxes) imposed on our business, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Such changes may also apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our financial statements. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities. 16 Table of Contents Our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we operate our business, develop, value, manage, protect, and use our intellectual property, and determine the value of our intercompany transactions. The tax laws applicable to our business, including those of the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation and certain jurisdictions are aggressively interpreting their laws in new ways in an effort to raise additional tax revenue from companies such as Airbnb. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. For example, our 2008 to 2023 tax years remain subject to examination in the United States and California due to tax attributes and statutes of limitations, and our 2019 to 2023 tax years remain subject to examination in Ireland. We are currently under examination for income taxes by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the years 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018. We are continuing to respond to inquiries related to these examinations. In December 2020, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) from the IRS for the 2013 tax year relating to the valuation of our international intellectual property which was sold to a subsidiary in 2013. The notice proposed an increase to our U.S. taxable income that could result in additional income tax expense and cash tax liability of $1.3 billion, plus penalties and interest, which exceeds our current reserve recorded in our consolidated financial statements by more than $1.0 billion. We disagree with the proposed adjustment and intend to vigorously contest it. In January 2022, we entered into an administrative dispute process with the IRS Independent Office of Appeals (IRS Appeals). We will continue to pursue all available remedies to resolve this dispute, including petitioning the U.S. Tax Court (Tax Court) for redetermination if an acceptable outcome cannot be reached with IRS Appeals, and if necessary, appealing the Tax Courts decision to the appropriate appellate court. If the IRS prevails in the assessment of additional tax due based on its position and such tax and related interest and penalties, if any, exceeds our current reserves, such outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations, and any assessment of additional tax could require a significant cash payment and have a material adverse impact on our cash flow. The determination of our worldwide provision for (benefit from) income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes is also determined by the manner in which we operate our business, and any changes to such operations or laws applicable to such operations may affect our effective tax rate. Although we believe that our provision for (benefit from) income taxes is reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and could materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. In addition, our future tax expense could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. For example, we have previously incurred losses in the United States and certain international subsidiaries that resulted in an effective tax rate that is significantly higher than the statutory tax rate in the United States and this could continue to happen in the future. We may also be subject to additional tax liabilities relating to indirect or other non-income taxes, as described in our risk factor titled Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our Hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage Hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform. Our tax positions or tax returns are subject to change, and therefore we cannot accurately predict whether we may incur material additional tax liabilities in the future, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in connection with any planned or future acquisitions, we may acquire businesses that have differing licenses and other arrangements that may be challenged by tax authorities for not being at arms-length or that are potentially less tax efficient than our licenses and arrangements. Any subsequent integration or continued operation of such acquired businesses may result in an increased effective tax rate in certain jurisdictions or potential indirect tax costs, which could result in us incurring additional tax liabilities or having to establish a reserve in our consolidated financial statements, and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty in the application of taxes to our Hosts, guests, or platform could increase our tax liabilities and may discourage Hosts and guests from conducting business on our platform. We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the United States (federal, state, and local) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We have received communications from numerous foreign, federal, state, and local governments regarding the application of tax laws or regulations to our business or demanding data about our Hosts and guests to aid in threatened or actual enforcement actions against our Hosts and guests. In many jurisdictions where applicable, we have agreed to collect and remit taxes on behalf of our Hosts. We have been subject to complaints by, and are involved in a number of lawsuits brought by, certain government entities for alleged responsibility for direct and indirect taxes. In some jurisdictions we are in dispute with respect to past and future taxes. A number of jurisdictions have proposed or implemented new tax laws or interpreted existing laws to explicitly apply various taxes to businesses like ours. Laws and regulations relating to taxes as applied to our platform, and to our Hosts and guests, vary greatly among jurisdictions, and it is difficult or impossible to predict how such laws and regulations will be applied. The application of indirect taxes, such as lodging taxes, hotel, sales and use tax, privilege taxes, excise taxes, VAT, goods and services tax, digital services taxes, harmonized sales taxes, business tax, and gross receipt taxes (together, indirect taxes) to e-commerce activities such as ours and to our Hosts or guests is a complex and evolving issue. Some of such tax laws or regulations hold us responsible for the reporting, collection, and payment of such taxes, and such laws could be applied to us for transactions conducted in the past as well as transactions in the future. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and e-commerce. New or revised foreign, federal, state, or local tax regulations may subject us or our Hosts and guests to additional indirect, income, and other taxes, and depending upon the jurisdiction could subject us or our Hosts and guests to significant monetary penalties and fines for non-payment of taxes. An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering adopting or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including digital platform revenue-based taxes, targeting online sharing platforms and online marketplaces, and new obligations to collect Host income taxes, sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on digital platforms. We may recognize additional tax expenses and be subject to additional tax liabilities, and our business, results of 17 Table of Contents operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by additional taxes of this nature or additional taxes or penalties resulting from our failure to comply with any reporting, collection, and payment obligations. We accrue a reserve for such taxes when the likelihood is probable that such taxes apply to us, and upon examination or audit, such reserves may be insufficient. New or revised taxes and, in particular, the taxes described above and similar taxes would likely increase the price paid by guests, the cost of doing business for our Hosts, discourage Hosts and guests from using our platform, and lead to a decline in revenue, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are required to disclose personal data pursuant to demands from government agencies for tax reporting purposes, our Hosts, guests, and regulators could perceive such disclosure as a failure by us to comply with data privacy and data security policies, notices, and laws and commence proceedings or actions against us. If we do not provide the requested information to government agencies due to a disagreement on the interpretation of the law, we are likely to face enforcement action, engage in litigation, face increased regulatory scrutiny, and experience an adverse impact in our relationships with governments. Our competitors may arrive at different or novel solutions to the application of taxes to analogous businesses that could cause our Hosts and guests to leave our platform in favor of conducting business on the platforms of our competitors. This uncertainty around the application of taxes and the impact of those taxes on the actual or perceived value of our platform may also cause guests to use OTAs, hotels, or other traditional travel services. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. We devote significant resources, including management time, to the application and interpretation of laws and working with various jurisdictions to clarify whether taxes are applicable and the amount of taxes that apply. The application of indirect taxes to our Hosts, guests, and our platform significantly increases our operational expenses as we build the infrastructure and tools to capture data and to report, collect, and remit taxes. Even if we are able to build the required infrastructure and tools, we may not be able to complete them in a timely fashion, in particular given the speed at which regulations and their interpretations can change, which could harm our relationship with governments and our reputation, and result in enforcement actions and litigation. The lack of uniformity in the laws and regulations relating to indirect taxes as applied to our platform and to our Hosts and guests further increases the operational and financial complexity of our systems and processes, and introduces potential for errors or incorrect tax calculations, all of which are costly to our business and results of operations. Certain regulations may be so complex as to make it infeasible for us to be fully compliant. As our business operations expand or change, including as a result of introducing new or enhanced offerings, features, or due to acquisitions, the application of indirect taxes to our business and to our Hosts and guests will further change and evolve, and could further increase our liability for taxes, discourage Hosts and guests from using our platform, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. While federal net operating loss carryforwards generated on or after January 1, 2018 are not subject to expiration, the deductibility of such net operating loss carryforwards is limited to 80% of our taxable income for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2021. Utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards depends on our future taxable income, and there is a risk that some of our existing net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits could expire unused (to the extent subject to expiration) and be unavailable to offset future taxable income, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in its equity ownership by significant stockholders or groups of stockholders over a three-year period, the corporations ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change taxable income or income tax liabilities may be limited. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We may have undergone ownership changes in the past, and we may experience ownership changes in the future because of shifts in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future U.S. federal taxable income or income tax liabilities may be, or may become, subject to limitations, which could result in increased future tax liability to us. Our use of AI, machine learning, and automated decision making gives rise to legal, business, and operational risks. Legal, regulatory, social and ethical issues relating to the use of AI and machine learning technologies in our offerings and business may result in reputational harm and liability. The rapid evolution of AI and machine learning will require the application of resources to develop, test, and maintain our offerings to help ensure that AI and machine learning are implemented responsibly in order to minimize unintended or harmful impacts. Uncertainty around new and emerging AI applications may require additional investment in the development of proprietary datasets, machine learning models, and systems to test for accuracy, bias, and other variables, which are often complex, may be costly, and could impact our profit margin as we expand the use of AI technologies in our offerings. Developing, testing, and deploying AI technologies may also increase our costs due to the associated computing costs. There are significant risks involved in developing, maintaining, and deploying these technologies and there can be no assurance that the usage of such technologies will always enhance our products or services or be beneficial to our business, including our efficiency or profitability. In particular, AI or automated decision making technologies may be incorrectly designed or implemented; may be trained or reliant on incomplete, inadequate, inaccurate, biased, or otherwise poor quality data or on data to which the developer does not have sufficient rights; and/or may be adversely impacted by unforeseen defects, technical challenges, cyber security threats, or material performance issues. Our ability to continue to develop or use such technologies may be dependent on access to technology offered by vendors and specific third-party software and infrastructure, such as processing hardware or third-party AI models, and we cannot control the quality of vendor offerings or the availability or pricing of such third-party software and infrastructure, especially in a highly competitive environment. We face competition from other companies in our industry who use similar machine learning technologies to us. Failure to offer or deploy new AI technologies as effectively as our competitors could adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents In addition, market acceptance and consumer perceptions of AI and machine learning technologies are uncertain. AI technologies, including generative AI, may create content or information that appears correct but is factually inaccurate or flawed. Our Hosts, guests or others may rely on or use this flawed content or information to their detriment, which may expose us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, consumer complaints, legal liability, and other adverse consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The use of AI technologies presents emerging ethical and social issues, and if we enable or offer solutions that draw scrutiny or controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on our customers or on society as a whole, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, consumer complaints, legal liability, and other adverse consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business also increasingly relies on machine learning, AI, and automated decision making to improve our services and tailor our interactions with our Hosts and guests. However, in recent years the use of personal data to train, or otherwise in connection with machine learning, AI and automated decision making, has come under increased regulatory scrutiny, and governments and regulators in the United States, European Union, and other places have announced the need for greater regulation regarding the use of machine learning and AI generally. New laws, guidance, and decisions in this area may limit our ability to use our machine learning and AI, or require us to make changes to our platform or operations that may decrease our operational efficiency, result in an increase to operating costs and/or hinder our ability to improve our services. For example, certain global privacy laws regulate the use of automated decision making and may require that the existence of automated decision making be disclosed to the data subject with a meaningful explanation of the logic used in such decision making in certain circumstances, and that safeguards must be implemented to safeguard individual rights, including the right to obtain human intervention and to contest any decision. Other global privacy laws allow individuals the right to opt out of certain automated processing of personal data and create other requirements that impact automated decision-making. At the federal level, the president of the United States recently issued an Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence, which charges multiple agencies, including The National Institute of Standards and Technology, with producing guidelines in connection with the development and use of AI. In the European Union, there is now political agreement on the EU Artificial Intelligence Act (EU AI Act), which establishes a comprehensive, risk-based governance framework for AI in the EU market. The EU AI Act is expected to enter into force in 2024, and the majority of the substantive requirements will apply two years later. The EU AI Act will apply to companies that develop, use and/or provide AI in the European Union and includes requirements around transparency, conformity assessments and monitoring, risk assessments, human oversight, security, accuracy, general purpose AI and foundation models, and proposes fines for breach of up to 7% of worldwide annual turnover (revenue). Additionally, in September 2022, the European Commission proposed two Directives seeking to establish a harmonized civil liability regime for AI in the European Union, in order to facilitate civil claims in respect of harm caused by AI and to include AI-enabled products within the scope of the European Unions existing strict liability regime. Once fully applicable, the EU AI Act will have a material impact on the way AI is regulated in the European Union, and together with developing guidance and/or decisions in this area, may affect our use of AI and our ability to provide, improve, or commercialize our services, and could require additional compliance measures and changes to our operations and processes. Moreover, the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, surrounding AI technologies has not been fully addressed by courts or laws or regulations, and the use or adoption of AI technologies into our offerings may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. As the legal and regulatory framework for AI and automated decision making evolves, we may not always be able to anticipate how to respond to these laws or regulations, and compliance may adversely impact our operations and involve significant expenditure and resources. Any failure by us to comply may result in significant liability, potential increases in civil claims against us, negative publicity, an erosion of trust, and/or increased regulation and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations, which make it difficult to forecast our future results. Our results of operations may vary significantly and are not necessarily an indication of future performance. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our financial results. We experience seasonality in our Nights and Experiences Booked and GBV, and seasonality in Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA) that is consistent with seasonality of our revenue, which has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highest in the third quarter when we have the most check-ins as it is the peak travel season for North America and EMEA. We recognize revenue upon the completion of a check-in. As our business matures, other seasonal trends may develop, or these existing seasonal trends may become more extreme. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we saw a significant geographic mix shift towards bookings in North America, entire homes, and non-urban destinations, all of which tend to have higher average daily rates. These trends and their impact on our average daily rate may change as customers adjust travel habits. In addition, our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: reduced travel and cancellations due to other events beyond our control such as health concerns, including epidemics and pandemics, natural disasters, wars, political instability, regional hostilities or law enforcement demands, and other regulatory actions; global macroeconomic conditions; periods with increased investments in our platform for existing offerings, new offerings and initiatives, marketing, and the accompanying growth in headcount; our ability to maintain growth and effectively manage that growth; increased competition; our ability to expand our operations in new and existing regions; changes in governmental or other regulations affecting our business; changes to our internal policies or strategies; harm to our brand or reputation; and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, we may not accurately forecast our results of operations. In addition, we experience a difference in timing between when a booking is made and when we recognize revenue, which ordinarily occurs upon check-in. The effect of significant downturns in bookings in a particular quarter may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods because of this timing in revenue recognition. 19 Table of Contents Moreover, we base our expense levels and investment plans on estimates for revenue that may turn out to be inaccurate. A significant portion of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue is less than expected, resulting in losses that exceed our expectations. If our assumptions regarding the risks and uncertainties that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We could face liability for information or content on or accessible through our platform. We could face claims relating to information or content that is made available on our platform. Our platform relies upon content that is created and posted by Hosts, guests, or other third parties. Although content on our platform is typically generated by third parties, and not by us, claims of defamation, disparagement, negligence, warranty, personal harm, intellectual property infringement, or other alleged damages could be asserted against us, in addition to our Hosts and guests. While we rely on a variety of statutory and common-law frameworks and defenses, including those provided by the DMCA, the CDA, the fair-use doctrine and various tort law defenses in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive and the DSA in the European Union and other regulations, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity or responsibility, requirements to maintain immunity or proportionate responsibility, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to rely on these frameworks and defenses, or create uncertainty regarding liability for information or content uploaded by Hosts and guests or otherwise contributed by third-parties to our platform. Moreover, regulators in the United States and in other countries may introduce new regulatory regimes that increase potential liability for information or content available on our platform. For example, in the United States, laws such as the CDA, which have previously been interpreted to provide substantial protection to interactive computer service providers, may change and become less predictable or unfavorable by legislative action or juridical interpretation. Additionally, there have been various federal legislative efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under the CDA, and current protections from liability for third-party content in the United States could decrease or change. There may be proposed U.S. federal legislation seeking to hold platforms liable for user-generated content, including content related to short-term or long-term rentals. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, if we are found liable, significant damages. The European Union has also enhanced the regulation of digital services, and in November 2022, the DSA came into force with the majority of the substantive provisions taking effect in 2023 and 2024. The DSA governs, among other things, potential liability for illegal content on platforms, traceability of traders, and transparency reporting obligations, including information on monthly active recipients in the European Union. The DSA may increase compliance costs and require additional resources as well as changes to our processes and operations. Failure to comply with the DSA can result in fines of up to 6% of total annual worldwide turnover (revenue) and recipients of services have the right to seek compensation from providers in respect of damage or loss suffered due to infringement by the provider. In parallel, the Digital Markets Act (the DMA) came into force in November 2022 and introduced ex ante regulation of certain large online platforms. Airbnb has not been designated a gatekeeper platform for the purposes of the DMA although this could change at some point in the future. Some European jurisdictions (such as Germany) have also introduced at the national level new competition rules in relation to digital platforms that are similar in their effects to the DMA. These laws may contain certain regulatory requirements and/or obligations that could negatively impact our business. Furthermore, some of our Hosts or some of our offerings may now or in the future be subject to the European Package Travel Directive, which imposes various obligations upon package providers and upon marketers of travel packages, such as disclosure obligations to consumers and liability to consumers. Some European jurisdictions have also proposed or intend to pass legislation that imposes new obligations and liabilities on platforms with respect to certain types of harmful content. While the scope and timing of these proposals are currently evolving, if enacted and applied to our platform, the new rules may adversely affect our business. In countries in Asia and Latin America, new regulations covering e-commerce or digital platforms have been passed or are being drafted, and cover consumer protection, online safety, services provided, privacy and tax. Complying with these regulations may impact our supply, corporate structure, licensing and registration requirements, data sharing requirements, compliance costs and tax exposure. Further, the laws of countries in Asia and Latin America already generally provide for direct liability if a platform is involved in creating such content or has actual knowledge of the content without taking action to take it down. Additionally, laws in some Asian countries also provide for primary or secondary liability, which can include criminal liability, if a platform fails to take sufficient steps to prevent such content from being uploaded. Because liability often flows from information or content on our platform and/or services accessed through our platform, as we continue to expand our offerings and scope of business, both in terms of the range of offerings and services and geographical operations, we may face or become subject to additional or different laws and regulations. Our potential liability for information or content created by third parties and posted to our platform could require us to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, may require us to expend significant resources, may limit the desirability of our platform to Hosts and guests, may cause damage to our brand or reputation, and may cause us to incur time and costs defending such claims in litigation, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the European Union, the Consumer Rights Directive and the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive harmonized consumer rights across the EU member states. Directive (EU) 2019/2161 (Omnibus Directive) also introduced stricter penalties (including fines) for breaches of consumer protection law, as well as additional specific information requirements for contracts concluded on online marketplaces. In 2018, the European Commission and a group of European consumer protection authorities (through the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network) investigated our customer terms and price display practices, which required us to make certain changes to our terms and price display practices. If Consumer Protection Regulators find that we are in breach of consumer protection laws, we may be fined or required to change our terms and processes, which may result in increased operational costs. Consumers and certain Consumer Protection Associations may also bring individual claims against us if they believe that our terms and/or business practices are not in compliance with local consumer protection laws. Currently, class actions may also be brought in certain countries in the European Union, and the Collective Redress Directive extends the right to collective redress across the European Union. The Collective Redress Directive replaced its predecessor in November 2020. This relatively new Directive allows for the recovery of monetary compensation by qualified entities on behalf of large classes of consumers, and greatly extends the scope to new areas, including for example misleading and comparative advertising, data privacy and data security. 20 Table of Contents Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our growth, and negative publicity could damage our brand and thereby harm our ability to compete effectively, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our ability to attract Hosts, guests, and employees, to compete effectively, to preserve and deepen the engagement of our existing Hosts, guests, and employees, to maintain and improve our standing in the communities where our Hosts operate, including our standing with community leaders and regulatory bodies, and to mitigate legislative or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, and government investigations. We are heavily dependent on the perceptions of Hosts and guests who use our platform to help make word-of-mouth recommendations that contribute to our growth. Any incident, whether actual or rumored to have occurred, involving the safety, security or quality of listings, Hosts, guests, or other members of the public, fraudulent transactions, or incidents that are mistakenly attributed to Airbnb, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, could create a negative public perception of our platform, which would adversely impact our ability to attract Hosts and guests. In addition, when Hosts cancel reservations or if we fail to provide timely refunds to guests in connection with cancellations, guest perception of the value of our platform is adversely impacted and may cause guests to not use our platform in the future. The impact of these issues may be more pronounced if we are seen to have failed to provide prompt and appropriate community support or our platform policies are perceived to be too permissive, too restrictive, or provide Hosts and/or guests with unsatisfactory resolutions. We have been the subject of media reports, social media posts, blogs, and other forums that contain allegations about our business or activity on our platform that create negative publicity. As a result of these complaints and negative publicity, some Hosts have refrained from, and may in the future refrain from, listing with us, and some guests have refrained from, and may in the future refrain from, using our platform, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, our brand and reputation could be harmed if we fail to act responsibly or are perceived as not acting responsibly, or fail to comply with regulatory requirements as interpreted by certain governments or agencies thereof, in a number of other areas, such as safety and security, data security, privacy practices, provision of information about users and activities on our platform, sustainability, human rights (including in respect of our own operations and throughout our supply chain), matters associated with our broader supply chain (including Hosts, guests, and other business partners), sustainability issues associated with human travel and migration, increased energy and water consumption, diversity, non-discrimination, and support for employees and local communities. Media, legislative, or government scrutiny around our Company, including the perceived impact on affordable housing and over-tourism, neighborhood nuisance, privacy practices, provision of information as requested by certain governments or agencies thereof, content on our platform, business practices and strategic plans, impact of travel on the climate and local environment, and public health policies that may cause geopolitical backlash, our business partners, private companies where we have minority investments, and our practices relating to our platform, offerings, employees, competition, litigation, and response to regulatory activity, could adversely affect our brand and our reputation with our Hosts, guests, and communities. Social media compounds the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated and the speed with which such negative publicity may spread. Any resulting damage to our brand or reputation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, we rely on our Hosts and guests to provide trustworthy reviews and ratings that our Hosts or guests may rely upon to help decide whether or not to book a particular listing or accept a particular booking and that we use to enforce quality standards. We rely on these reviews to further strengthen trust among members of our community. Our Hosts and guests may be less likely to rely on reviews and ratings if they believe that our review system does not generate trustworthy reviews and ratings. We have procedures in place to combat fraud or abuse of our review system, but we cannot guarantee that these procedures are or will be effective. In addition, if our Hosts and guests do not leave reliable reviews and ratings, other potential Hosts or guests may disregard those reviews and ratings, and our systems that use reviews and ratings to enforce quality standards would be less effective, which could reduce trust within our community and damage our brand and reputation, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our community support function is critical to the success of our platform, and any failure to provide high-quality service could affect our ability to retain our existing Hosts and guests and attract new ones. Our ability to provide high-quality support to our community of Hosts and guests is important for the growth of our business and any failure to maintain such standards of community support, or any perception that we do not provide high-quality service, could affect our ability to retain and attract Hosts and guests. Meeting the community support expectations of our Hosts and guests requires significant time and resources from our community support team and significant investment in staffing, technology, including automation and machine learning to improve efficiency, infrastructure, policies, and community support tools. The failure to develop the appropriate technology, infrastructure, policies, and community support tools, or to manage or properly train our community support team, could compromise our ability to resolve questions and complaints quickly and effectively. The number of our Hosts and guests has grown significantly and such growth, as well as any future growth, will put additional pressure on our community support organization and our technology organization. In addition, as we service a global customer base and continue to grow outside of North America and Europe, we need to be able to provide effective support that meets our Hosts and guests needs and languages globally at scale. Our service is powered, in large part, based on complex algorithms that map to our business forecasts. Any volatility in those forecasts could lead to staffing gaps that could impact the quality of our service. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience backlog incidents that lead to substantial delays or other issues in responding to requests for customer support, which may reduce our ability to effectively retain Hosts and guests. The vast majority of our community support is performed by a limited number of third-party service providers. We rely on our internal team and these third parties to provide timely and appropriate responses to the inquiries of Hosts and guests that come to us via telephone, email, social media, and chat. Reliance on these third parties requires that we provide proper guidance and training for their employees, maintain proper