Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Airship AI the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of the combined companys securities. Significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition and income taxes. 26 Table of Contents Airship AI has limited insurance which may not cover claims by third parties against Airship AI or its officers and directors. We have directors and officers liability insurance and commercial liability insurance policies. Claims, however, by third parties against us may exceed policy amounts and we may not have amounts to cover these claims. Any significant claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our limited directors and officers liability insurance may affect our ability to attract and retain directors and officers. Airship AI could be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to federal, state, and local income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Determining our provision for income taxes requires significant management judgment, and the ultimate tax outcome may be uncertain. In addition, our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by many factors, including, among other things, changes to our operating or holding structure, changes in the amounts of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws. Moreover, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, which may disagree with our calculation of research and development tax credits, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing, or other matters and assess additional taxes, interest or penalties. While we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and we believe that our financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover any such contingencies, there can be no assurance that the outcomes of such examinations will not have a material impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. Under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the amounts of, and benefits from, net operating losses may be limited in certain circumstances, including a change in control. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to utilize any net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Provisions enacted by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act related to the capitalization for tax purposes of research and experimental (R&E) expenditures became effective on January 1, 2022. Beginning January 1, 2022, all U.S. and non-U.S. based R&E expenditures must be capitalized and amortized over five years and 15 years, respectively. Costs incurred in the development of software programs for Airship AIs products are charged to operations as incurred until technological feasibility of the software has been established. Generally, technological feasibility is established when the software module performs its primary functions described in its original specifications, contains features required for it to be usable in a production environment, is completely documented and the related hardware portion of the product is complete. After technological feasibility is established, any additional costs are capitalized. Capitalization of software costs ceases when the software is substantially complete and is ready for its intended use. No software development costs have been capitalized during the years ended or as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. Risks Related to Our Securities Currently, our Common Stock and Public Warrants are listed on Nasdaq. However, there may not be enough liquidity in such market to enable stockholders to sell their securities. 27 Table of Contents Currently, our Common Stock and Public Warrants are listed on The Nasdaq Global Market and The Nasdaq Capital Market, respectively. If a public market for our securities does not develop, investors may not be able to re-sell their Common Stock or Warrants, rendering their securities illiquid and possibly resulting in a complete loss of their investment. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active, liquid trading market. The trading price of and demand for the Common Stock and the development and continued existence of a market and favorable price for the Common Stock will depend on a number of conditions, including the development of a market following, including by analysts and other investment professionals, the businesses, operations, results, and prospects of the Company, general market and economic conditions, governmental actions, regulatory considerations, legal proceedings, and developments or other factors. These and other factors may impair the development of a liquid market and the ability of investors to sell shares at an attractive price. These factors also could cause the market price and demand for the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the price and liquidity of the Common Stock. Many of these factors and conditions are beyond the control of the Company or the stockholders. Our executive officers and directors exercise significant control over us, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Victor Huang, Airship AIs co-Founder and our Chief Executive Officer, and Derek Xu, Airship AIs co-Founder and our Chief Operating Officer, beneficially own (including shares underlying outstanding warrants, stock options and SARs) approximately 70.5% of our combined voting power. As a result, these stockholders will be able to influence our management and affairs and control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any sale, merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may have interests, with respect to their Common Stock, which are different from those of the public investors and the concentration of voting power among one or more of these stockholders may have an adverse effect on the price of the Common Stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock by: (1) delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control; (2) impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or (3) discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. The requirements of being a public company may strain the Companys resources and distract management and we will incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company. Following the consummation of the Business Combination, the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Securities Act. These rules, regulations and requirements are extensive. We will incur significant costs associated with our public company corporate governance and reporting requirements. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure