Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to BYTE Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 8, 2021 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (the Business Combination), that we have not yet identified. While we may pursue an initial business combination target in any business or industry, we intent to focus our search for targets in the Israeli technology industry, including those engaged in cybersecurity, automotive technology, fintech, enterprise software, cloud computing, semiconductors, medical technology, AI and robotics and that offer a differentiated technology platform and products. Our sponsor is Byte Holdings LP, a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our initial public offering was declared effective on March 17, 2021. On March 23, 2021, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 30,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $300.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $17.2 million, inclusive of approximately $10.5 million in deferred underwriting commissions. On April 7, 2021, the underwriter exercised the over-allotment option in part and purchased an additional 2,369,251 Units (the Over-Allotment Units), generating additional gross proceeds of $23,692,510 (such offering, including the exercise of the over-allotment, the Initial Public Offering). Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 1,030,000 Units (the Private Placement Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $10.3 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, sale of the Over-Allotment Units, and the Private Placement, $323.7 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and certain of proceeds of the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account to the shareholders. 18 If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 23, 2023, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than 10 business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to its obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through June 30, 2022 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $1.9 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash gain of approximately $1.8 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and income from investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $424,000, partially offset by approximately $288,000 of general and administrative expenses, including $30,000 of general and administrative expenses to related parties. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $4.7 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash loss of approximately $4.4 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative liabilities, approximately $294,000 general and administrative expenses and a non-operating expense of approximately $68,000 related to offering costs for derivative liabilities, partially offset by income from investments held in the Trust Account of $10,000. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $7.2 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash gain of approximately $7.4 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and income from investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $455,000, partially offset by approximately $637,000 of general and administrative expenses, including $60,000 of general and administrative expenses to related parties. For the period from January 8, 2021 (inception) through June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $5.9 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash loss of approximately $4.7 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative liabilities, approximately $457,000 general and administrative expenses and a non-operating expense of approximately $845,000 related to offering costs for derivative liabilities, partially offset by income from investments held in the Trust Account of $11,000. 19 Liquidity and Going Concern As of June 30, 2022, we had cash of $1.3 million. Until the consummation of the Public Offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares and private placement units by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. Our liquidity needs prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering had been satisfied through a payment of $25,000 from the Sponsor to cover certain expenses on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined below), a loan under a note agreement from our Sponsor of approximately $149,000 (the Note), and the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the Note on March 25, 2021. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us working capital loans. To date, there were no amounts outstanding under any working capital loans. In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern, management has determined that the mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after March 23, 2023. The unaudited condensed financial statements do not include any adjustment that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and have concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the balance sheet. The unaudited condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than, an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial, and administrative and support services. We began incurring these fees on March 23, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $11,329,238 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to our condensed financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Certain of our accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are the most important to the depiction of our financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Such policies are summarized in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 6, 2022. There have been no significant changes in the application of our critical accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2022. 20 Recent Accounting Standards See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. JOBS Act The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.