Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to BYTE Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 8, 2021 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (the Business Combination), that we have not yet identified. While we may pursue an initial business combination target in any business or industry, we intent to focus our search for targets in the Israeli technology industry, including those engaged in cybersecurity, automotive technology, fintech, enterprise software, cloud computing, semiconductors, medical technology, AI and robotics and that offer a differentiated technology platform and products. Our sponsor is Byte Holdings LP, a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on March 17, 2021. On March 23, 3021, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 30,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $300.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $17.2 million, inclusive of approximately $10.5 million in deferred underwriting commissions. On April 7, 2021, the underwriter exercised the over-allotment option in part and purchased an additional 2,369,251 Units (the Over-Allotment Units), generating additional gross proceeds of $23,692,510. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 1,030,000 Units (the Private Placement Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $10.3 million. 18 Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $300.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and certain of proceeds of the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account to the shareholders. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 23, 2023, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than 10 business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to its obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through June 30, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $4.7 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash loss of approximately $4.4 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative liabilities, approximately $294,000 general and administrative expenses and a non-operating expense of approximately $68,000 related to offering costs for derivative liabilities, partially offset by income from investments held in the Trust Account of $10,000. For the period from January 8, 2021 (inception) through June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $5.9 million, which primarily consisted of a noncash loss of approximately $4.7 million resulting from changes in fair value of derivative liabilities, approximately $457,000 general and administrative expenses and a non-operating expense of approximately $845,000 related to offering costs for derivative liabilities, partially offset by income from investments held in the Trust Account of $11,000. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $1.8 million in our operating bank account and working capital of approximately $2.7 million. Our liquidity needs prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering had been satisfied through a payment of $25,000 from the Sponsor to cover certain expenses on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined below), a loan under a note agreement from our Sponsor of approximately $149,000 (the Note), and the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the Note on March 25, 2021. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us working capital loans. To date, there were no amounts outstanding under any working capital loans. Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. 19 We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the condensed balance sheet. The unaudited condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative services agreement to pay our Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to us. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our unaudited condensed financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Derivative Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants and forward purchase agreements, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjusts the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys condensed statements of operations. The initial estimated fair value of the warrants was measured using a Monte Carlo simulation. The subsequent estimated fair value of the Public Warrants is based on the listed price in an active market for such warrants while the fair value of the Private Placement Warrants continues to be measured using a Monte Carlo simulation. Class A common stock subject to possible redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2021, 28,971,558 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheet. 20 Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement to purchase up to an aggregate of 16,699,626 of the Companys Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of the diluted income per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. The Companys unaudited condensed statements of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per ordinary share for shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on investments held by the Trust Account, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income or loss on investments held in the Trust Account attributable to ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable common stock includes Founder Shares and non-redeemable Class A ordinary shares as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable ordinary shares participate in the income or loss on investments held in the Trust Account based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current U.S. GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 8, 2021 (inception). Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 21 Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.