ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact that our new products and product enhancements will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of the scanner and services business, our expectations to increase our investment in manufacturing capacity, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, the anticipated number of new doctors trained and their impact on volumes, the impact of the termination of our Asia Pacific distributor relationship and reverting to a direct sales model in that region by acquiring the distributor business, our expectations regarding our stock repurchase program, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins, and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Align Technology, Inc. is a global medical device company that advanced the invisible orthodontics market with the introduction of the Invisalign System in 1999. Today, we are focused on designing, manufacturing and marketing innovative technology-rich products to help dental professionals achieve the clinical results they expect and deliver effective, convenient cutting-edge dental treatment options to their patients. Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and is headquartered in San Jose, California with offices worldwide. Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner, known as the Invisalign System; and (2) Scanner and Services ("Scanner"), known as the iTero intra-oral scanners and OrthoCAD services (which we previously referred to as Scanner and CAD/CAM Services ("SCCS")). We received FDA clearance in 1998 and began our first commercial sales of Invisalign to U.S. orthodontists in 1999 followed by U.S. General Practitioner Dentists (GPs) in 2002. Over the next decade, we introduced Invisalign to the European market and Japan, added distribution partners in Asia-Pacific, Latin America, and EMEA, and introduced a full range of treatment options including Invisalign Express 10, Invisalign Teen, Invisalign Assist, and Vivera Retainers. By 2011, we launched significant new aligner and software features across all Invisalign products that make it easier for doctors to use Invisalign on more complex cases, and introduced Invisalign to the Peoples Republic of China. In 2013, we launched SmartTrack, the next generation of Invisalign clear aligner material, which became the new standard aligner material for Invisalign products in North America, Europe and other international markets where we have obtained regulatory approval. Most recently, in February 2014, we launched Invisalign G5 innovations, specifically designed for treatment of deep bite malocclusion as well as ClinCheck Pro, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. We also sell iTero intra-oral scanners and provide computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAD/CAM") services. Intra-oral scanners provide a dental chair-side platform for accessing valuable digital diagnosis and treatment tools, with potential for enhancing accuracy of records, treatment efficiency, and the overall patient experience. We believe there are numerous benefits for customers and the opportunity to accelerate the adoption of Invisalign through interoperability with our intra-oral scanners. The use of digital technologies such as CAD/CAM for restorative dentistry or in-office restorations has been growing rapidly and intra-oral scanning is a critical part of enabling these new digital technologies and procedures in dental practices. In late 2012, we commercially launched the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, the first Invisalign chair-side application powered by the iTero scanner. The interactive application provides dentists and orthodontists an enhanced platform for patient education and is designed to increase treatment acceptance by helping patients visualize the benefits possible with Invisalign treatment. In January 2014, we announced that the 3M True Definition scanner was qualified for use with Invisalign case submissions. This qualification enables Invisalign providers with a True Definition 23 scanner to submit a digital impression in place of a traditional PVS impression as part of the Invisalign case submission process. The 3M True Definition scanner is currently the only third-party scanner that has been qualified for use with Invisalign treatment. We continue to believe in an open systems approach to digital impressions, and are committed to working with other intra-oral scanning companies interested in developing interoperability for use with Invisalign treatment. The Invisalign System is offered in more than 60 countries and has been used to treat more than 2.5 million patients. Our iTero intra-oral scanner, which is primarily sold in North America, provides dental professionals with an open choice to send digital impressions to any laboratory-based CAD/CAM system or to any of the more than 1,200 dental labs worldwide. Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intra-oral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers set forth in the Business Strategy section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful execution of our business strategy and our results in 2014 and beyond may be affected by a number of other factors, which are updated below: New Products, Feature Enhancements and Technology Innovation . Product innovation drives greater treatment predictability and clinical applicability, and ease of use for our customers, which supports adoption of Invisalign in their practices. Increasing applicability and treating more complex cases requires that we move away from individual features to comprehensive solutions so that Invisalign providers can more predictably treat the whole case, such as with Invisalign G5 for deep bite treatment. Launched in February 2014, Invisalign G5 was engineered to treat deep bite malocclusion in its entirety, making it easier for our customers to treat one of the most common malocclusions. In North America, in February 2014, we also launched ClinCheck Pro, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to provide more precise control over final tooth position and to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. We intend to launch ClinCheck Pro in our other country markets in the first quarter of 2015. We believe that over the long-term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. Invisalign Utilization rates. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as "utilization rates". Our quarterly utilization rates for the previous 9 quarters are as follows: * Invisalign Utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to Total utilization in the first quarter of 2014 was 4.3 cases per doctor and was flat compared to the first quarter of 2013. Utilization among our North American orthodontist customers increased slightly to 8.1 case per doctor in the first quarter of 2014 from 8.0 in the first quarter of 2013, while our International doctor utilization increased to 4.3 in the first quarter of 2014 from 4.0 in the first quarter of 2013. This increase in North America orthodontist 24 utilization reflects improvements in product and technology over the past year, including Invisalign G5, which continues to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign such that they now utilize Invisalign more often and on more complex cases. Increased International utilization reflects strong growth in both the Europe Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia Pacific regions driven by go to market and sales coverage investments, improving clinical education and support as well as the introduction of new products such as Invisalign G5. Year over year utilization for our North American GP customers was relatively unchanged. Although we expect that over the long-term our utilization rates will gradually improve, we expect that period over period comparisons of our utilization rates will fluctuate. Number of new Invisalign doctors trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. In 2013, Invisalign growth was driven primarily by increased utilization by our orthodontist customers as well as by the continued expansion of our customer base as we trained a total of 8,065 new Invisalign doctors. GPs are one of the keys to driving growth in the adult segment and, in 2014, we launched a new CE I training course, now called Invisalign Fundamentals, designed to improve practice integration and increase utilization for newly trained doctors. We are implementing this new Invisalign Fundamentals program across North America and will look for opportunities to adjust our international training programs as we work to help our GP practices worldwide more successfully adopt Invisalign into their practices. We believe that this new training approach will increase the number of doctors submitting cases 90-days post-training, as well as the number of cases submitted per doctor. International Clear Aligner. We will continue to focus our efforts towards increasing adoption of our products by dental professionals in our direct international markets. On a year over year basis, international volume increased 25%, driven primarily by growth in Europe as well as by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region. In 2014, we will continue to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in selected country markets. In addition, given the significant long term potential this extensive geography represents and the support we can now provide by utilizing our direct coverage model in Europe, beginning in February 2014, we transitioned a small number of these countries into direct sales regions. We expect to leverage our existing infrastructure and resources to bring sales coverage and customer support to these countries, most of which are adjacent to our directly covered European countries. Due to the small volume of business from our EMEA distributor, we do not anticipate that this transition will have a material effect on our financial results in the next several years. Foreign exchange rates. Although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a portion of our net revenues and income are generated in foreign currencies. Net revenues and income generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and as a result are affected by changes in exchange rates. We have generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk; therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of net revenues and income in our consolidated financial statements. Medical Device Excise Tax . During March 2014, Align had extensive discussions with the IRS and they informed us that our aligners are not subject to the medical device excise tax ("MDET") which we had been paying and expensing in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations since January 1, 2013. As a result of these discussions, beginning in March 2014, we ceased expensing and paying the MDET for aligners, which reduced our first quarter general and administrative expense by approximately $0.5 million. In future quarters, we expect our general and administrative expense in relation to MDET to decrease by approximately $1.8 million per quarter based on current revenues. Additionally, we are in process of claiming a $8.0 million refund of MDET paid in 2013 and 2014; however, because this claim is subject to review and approval by the IRS, we have not recorded a receivable as the outcome of our audit is uncertain. Any future changes in the applicability of the MDET as it applies to us or refunds of amounts previously paid will be recorded as an additional expense or a credit to the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which is becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Stock Repurchase Authorization. On April 23, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we may purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock over the next three years, with $100.0 million of that amount authorized to be purchased over the next twelve months. Any purchases under this stock repurchase program may be made, from time-to-time, pursuant to open market purchases (including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans), privately-negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchases, block trades or derivative contracts or otherwise in accordance with applicable federal securities 25 laws, including Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The program does not obligate Align to acquire any particular amount of common stock and depending on market conditions or other factors these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time, or from time-to-time without prior notice. The authorization or continuance of any repurchases under stock repurchase programs is contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such stock repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our stock repurchase program will have a beneficial impact on our stock price. Accelerated Stock Repurchase Agreement. As part of our $300.0 million stock repurchase program, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement ("ASR") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. on April 28, 2014 to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock. Under the terms of the ASR, we agreed to repurchase in total $70.0 million of our common stock, with an initial delivery of approximately 1.0 million shares based on current market prices. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, less an agreed upon discount. We expect to finance the ASR with current cash on hand and for it to be completed by July 29, 2014. Balance Sheet Reclassification. Sub sequent to the furnishing of our Results of Operations and Financial Conditions on Form 8-K with the SEC on April 23, 2014, we recorded an adjustment to reclassify $2.0 million from long-term marketabl e securities to short-term marketable securities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet presented in this Form 10-Q. This reclassification was not considered to be material and did not have an impact to our condensed consolidated statement of cash flow or operations for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Results of Operations Net revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of our Invisalign system which includes Invisalign Full, Teen and Assist ("Full Products"), Express/Lite ("Express Products"),Vivera retainers, along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner segment consists of intra-oral scanning systems and additional services available with the intra-oral scanners that provide digital alternatives to the traditional cast models. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. The below represents net revenues for our Clear Aligner segment by region and product and our Scanner segment by region for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Clear Aligner: 2014 2013 Net Change % Change Region North America 107.9 97.1 10.8 11.1 % International 49.8 31.8 18.0 56.6 % Invisalign non-case net revenues 10.5 12.7 (2.2 ) (17.3 )% Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 168.2 $ 141.6 $ 26.6 18.8 % Product Invisalign Full Products $ 138.1 $ 112.8 $ 25.3 22.4 % Invisalign Express Products 19.6 16.1 3.5 21.7 % Invisalign non-case net revenues 10.5 12.7 (2.2 ) (17.3 )% Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 168.2 $ 141.6 $ 26.6 18.8 % Scanner: Region North America $ 12.3 $ 11.5 $ 0.8 7.0 % International 0.1 0.5 (0.4 ) (80.0 )% Total Scanner net revenues $ 12.4 $ 12.0 $ 0.4 3.3 % Total net revenues $ 180.6 $ 153.6 $ 27.0 17.6 % 26 Table of Contents Clear Aligner Case Volume by Channel and Product Case volume data which represents Invisalign case shipments by region and product, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Region 2014 2013 Net Change % Change North American Invisalign 81.4 74.7 6.7 9.0 % International Invisalign 30.8 23.5 7.3 31.1 % Total Invisalign case volume 112.2 98.2 14.0 14.3 % Product Invisalign Full Product Group 92.3 79.3 13.0 16.4 % Invisalign Express Product Group 19.8 18.9 0.9 4.8 % Total Invisalign case volume 112.1 98.2 13.9 14.2 % Total net revenues increased by $27.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , as compared to the same period in 2013 primarily as a result of Invisalign case volume growth across all regions and most products. Clear Aligner In the three months ended March 31, 2014 , Clear Aligner North America net revenues increased by $ 10.8 million or 11.1% compared to the same period in 2013 primarily due to Invisalign case volume growth of approximately $8.7 million across all channels and most products and, to a lesser extent, higher average selling prices ("ASP") which contributed approximately $2.1 million to the increase in net revenues. The increase in ASP was primarily a result of lower promotional discounts in the current period compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three months ended March 31, 2014 , Clear Aligner international net revenues increased by $ 18.0 million or 56.6% compared to the same period in 2013 primarily driven by Invisalign case volume growth of $9.9 million across all products and higher ASP which contributed approximately $8.1 million to the increase in net revenues. The increase in ASP was primarily due to the impact from acquiring our distributor in the Asia Pacific region on April 30, 2013, as we now recognize direct sales of Invisalign products sold in that region at our full ASP rather than the discounted ASP under the distributor agreement, as well as price increases which were effective July 2013 along with a favorable impact from foreign exchange rates. Invisalign non-case net revenues, consisting of training fees and ancillary product revenues, decreased $2.2 million or 17.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013 primarily due to the consolidation of our Vivera product shipments in North America. In the first quarter of 2013, we began consolidating Vivera shipments into one shipment per year rather than four shipments per year. As a result, net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 reflected a benefit of approximately $4.4 million as we recognized nine additional months of the subscription revenue in the first quarter instead of recognizing it ratably every quarter for one year. This decrease was offset in part by increased Vivera volume both in North America and international regions. Scanner and Services Scanner and Services net revenues increased $0.4 million or 3.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 primarily due to an increase in the volume of services resulting from a larger installed base of scanner partially offset by a decrease in scanner revenue primarily due to lower scanner ASP as a result of promotional discounts as well as permanent price reductions. Additionally, net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 included a release of $1.4 million of revenue previously reserved for the new iTero upgrade program which was completed in the first quarter of 2013. 27 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 35.2 $ 32.2 $ 3.0 % of net segment revenues 20.9 % 22.8 % Gross profit $ 133.1 $ 109.3 $ 23.8 Gross margin % 79.1 % 77.2 % Scanner Cost of net revenues $ 8.2 $ 8.5 $ (0.3 ) % of net segment revenues 66.4 % 70.7 % Gross profit $ 4.2 $ 3.5 $ 0.7 Gross margin % 33.6 % 29.3 % Total cost of net revenues $ 43.4 $ 40.7 $ 2.7 % of net revenues 24.0 % 26.5 % Gross profit $ 137.3 $ 112.9 $ 24.4 Gross margin % 76.0 % 73.5 % Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes salaries for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets from Cadent, training costs and stock-based compensation. Clear Aligner Gross margin increased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 due to higher ASP along with lower inventory reserves in comparison to the prior year period when we transitioned to our new SmartTrack material in February 2013. In addition, we experienced lower warranty costs as a result of reduced claims corresponding with the change in our mid-course correction policy in June 2013. Scanner Gross margin increased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 due to increased absorption of manufacturing spend from higher production volumes, reduced freight costs and lower inventory reserves. These improvements were partially offset by the benefit in the prior year period which included a release of $1.4 million of revenue previously reserved for the new iTero upgrade program along with lower ASPs in the current year due to price reductions. Sales and marketing (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Sales and marketing $ 52.9 $ 42.3 $ 10.6 % of net revenues 29.3 % 27.5 % Sales and marketing expense includes sales force and marketing compensation (including travel-related costs), media and advertising, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, stock-based compensation and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities, IT and human resources. Our sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2014 increased compared to the same period in 2013 primarily due to higher compensation related costs of $7.6 million from increased headcount, including additional employees as a result of the acquisition of our APAC distributor in April 2013, higher salaries as a result of our annual focal review and higher stock-based compensation. In addition, advertising and media costs increased by approximately $2.1 million related to network and television media campaigns. 28 Table of Contents General and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change General and administrative $ 29.2 $ 30.3 $ (1.1 ) % of net revenues 16.2 % 19.8 % General and administrative expense primarily includes administrative personnel compensation costs including stock-based compensation, outside consulting services, legal expenses, depreciation and amortization expense, the medical device excise tax ("MDET") and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities, IT and human resources. General and administrative expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 primarily due to lower outside litigation costs and decreased compensation costs as a result of severance costs in 2013 offset in part by increased salaries from our annual focal review. In addition, these costs were partially offset by higher customer credit card processing fees from increased volume on revenues. As previously noted,in March 2014, the IRS informed us that our aligners are not subject to the medical device excise tax ("MDET"), which we had been paying and expensing in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations since January 1, 2013. In future quarters of 2014, we expect our general and administrative expense in relation to the MDET to decrease by approximately $1.8 million per quarter based on current revenues. Additionally, we are in process of claiming a $8.0 million refund of MDET paid in 2013 and 2014; however, because this claim is subject to review and approval by the IRS, we have not recorded a receivable as the outcome of our audit is uncertain. Any future changes in the applicability of the MDET as it applies to us or refunds of amounts previously paid will be recorded as an additional expense or a credit to the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which is becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Research and development $ 13.4 $ 11.3 $ 2.1 % of net revenues 7.4 % 7.3 % Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products, corporate allocations, facility and facility related costs and stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expense during the three months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to the same period in 2013 increased slightly primarily due to of higher compensation costs from additional headcount, increased salaries from our annual focal review and higher stock-based compensation. Impairment of goodwill (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Impairment of goodwill $ $ 40.7 $ (40.7 ) % of net revenues % 26.5 % There was no goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2014. In the first quarter of 2013, we determined that the goodwill for our Scanner reporting unit should be tested for impairment between annual tests since an event occurred or circumstances changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our Scanner reporting unit below its carrying amount. As a result of our analysis, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $40.7 million in the first quarter of 2013, none of which was deductible for tax purposes. Refer to Note 5 for details of the impairment analysis. 29 Table of Contents Impairment of long-lived assets (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Impairment of long-lived assets $ $ 26.3 $ (26.3 ) % of net revenues % 17.1 % We recorded $26.3 million related to the impairment of long-lived assets during the first quarter of 2013 as a result of changes in the competitive environment of our intra-oral scanners, which included announcements of new low-priced scanners targeted at orthodontists and general practitioner dentists in North America, which caused us to lower our expectations for growth and profitability for our Scanner reporting unit. Therefore, we determined that the carrying value of the long-lived assets was not recoverable and recorded an impairment charge of $26.3 million. Refer to Note 5 for details of the impairment analysis. Interest and other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 0.6 $ (1.0 ) $ 1.6 Interest and other income (expense), net, includes interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, foreign currency translation gains and losses and other miscellaneous charges. Interest and other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2014 increased compared to the same period in 2013 due to foreign exchange gains in the current year period primarily as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar to the Euro as compared to losses in the prior year period. Income tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Provision for income taxes $ 10.0 $ 2.9 $ 7.1 Effective tax rates 23.5 % (7.5 )% Our provision for income taxes was $10.0 million and $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. This represents effective tax rates of 23.5% and (7.5)% , respectively. The increase in provision for income taxes was primarily due to higher pre-tax income, which was partially offset by a jurisdictional shift in forecasted earnings from the U.S. to lower-tax non-U.S. jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 reflects a non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $40.7 million. We exercise significant judgment in regards to estimates of future market growth, forecasted earnings and projected taxable income in determining the provision for income taxes, and for purposes of assessing our ability to utilize any future benefit from deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2014 , we maintained a valuation allowance of $35.4 million against deferred tax assets primarily related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards. These net operating and capital loss carryforwards would result in an income tax benefit if we were to conclude it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the change in our gross unrecognized tax benefits was not material. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $27.9 million as of March 31, 2014 , all of which would impact our effective tax rate if recognized. We have elected to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income taxes. The change in accrued interest and penalties during the three months ended March 31, 2014, was not material. We do not expect any significant changes to the amount of unrecognized tax benefit within the next twelve months. 30 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2014, we adopted ASU 2013-11, "Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit when a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force)." The adoption of this standard had the effect of reducing our accruals for uncertain tax positions by $8.4 million, with an offsetting reduction in our long term deferred tax assets, but had no effect on net income. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states and foreign jurisdictions. All of our tax years will be open to examination by the U.S. federal and most state tax authorities due to our net operating loss and overall credit carryforward position. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to examination by foreign tax authorities for years before 2006. Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales and the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. As of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 , we had the following cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities(in thousands): March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash and cash equivalents $ 182,766 $ 242,953 Marketable securities, short-term 183,677 127,040 Marketable securities, long-term 138,929 101,978 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities $ 505,372 $ 471,971 Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net cash flow (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ 17,993 $ 10,418 Investing activities (99,347 ) (3,445 ) Financing activities 21,061 15,423 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 106 (37 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (60,187 ) $ 22,359 As of March 31, 2014 , we had $505.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and debt instruments which include commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. dollar dominated foreign corporate bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. As of March 31, 2014 , approximately $238.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The costs to repatriate our foreign earnings to the U.S. would likely be material; however, our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from foreign operations, and our current plans do not require us to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations as we generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to external funding under our current revolving line of credit. On April 28, 2014, we announced that we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with Goldman, Sachs & Co. to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock. The ASR is part of our $300.0 million stock repurchase program announced on April 23, 2014. Under the terms of the ASR, we agreed to repurchase in total $70.0 million of our common stock from Goldman, Sachs & Co., with an initial delivery of approximately 1.0 million shares based on current market prices. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, less an agreed upon discount. We expect to finance the ASR with current cash on hand and for it to be completed by July 29, 2014. On March 22, 2013, we entered into a credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank. The credit facility provides for a $50.0 million revolving line of credit, with a $10.0 million letter of credit sublimit, and has a maturity date on March 22, 2016. The credit facility also requires us to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance of $50.0 million and comply with specific 31 Table of Contents financial conditions and performance requirements. The loans bear interest, at our option, at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the daily one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.75% or an adjusted LIBOR rate (based on one, three, six or twelve-month interest periods) plus a spread of 1.75% . As of March 31, 2014 , we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility and were in compliance with the conditions and performance requirements. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and marketable debt securities combined with our positive cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows, we may need to seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , cash flows from operations of $18.0 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $32.4 million as well as the following: Significant non-cash activities: Excess tax benefits from our share-based compensation arrangements of $13.6 million , deferred taxes of $12.8 million , stock-based compensation of $9.1 million related to equity incentive compensation awards granted to our employees, and depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangibles of $4.8 million . Significant changes in working capital: A decrease of $15.3 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities due to the payment of our 2013 annual bonuses, and an increase of $13.9 million in accounts receivable which is a result of the increase in net revenues. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $99.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $157.9 million , property, plant and equipment purchases of $5.0 million . These outflows were partially offset by $63.7 million of maturities and sales of our marketable securities. For the remainder of 2014, we expect to spend an additional $35.0 million to $45.0 million on capital expenditures for estimated total capital expenditures of $40.0 million to $50.0 million for 2014 primarily for additional manufacturing capacity and infrastructure. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $21.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily resulting from $11.9 million proceeds from issuance of common stock, $13.6 million from excess tax benefit from our share-based compensation arrangements. These inflows were offset by $4.5 million related to payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units through share withholdings. 32 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2013 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond those available under our credit facility, we may need to seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2014 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Indemnification Provisions In the normal course of business to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties: customers, vendors, lessors and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, services to be provided by us and intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. As of March 31, 2014 , we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, net revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, intangible assets, legal contingencies, impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our most significant estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies and related disclosures appear in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013: Revenue recognition; Stock-based compensation expense; Goodwill and finite-lived acquire assets, Impairment of goodwill, finite-lived acquire assets and long-lived assets, and Accounting for Income Taxes. 33 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.