Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements which are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (the "Annual Report"). In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading cloud-based human capital technology and services provider that powers confident health, wealth and wellbeing decisions for millions of people and their dependents. Our Alight Worklife platform combines data and analytics with a simple, seamless user experience. Supported by our global delivery capabilities, Alight Worklife is transforming the employee experience for people around the world through personalized, data-driven health, wealth and wellbeing insights. On July 2, 2021 (the Closing Date), Foley Trasimene Acquisition Corp. ("FTAC") completed the business combination (the Business Combination) with Alight Holding Company, LLC (f/k/a Tempo Holding Company, LLC) (Alight Holdings or the Predecessor) contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (as amended and restated as of April 29, 2021) between FTAC, Alight Holdings and other interested parties (the Business Combination Agreement). On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, FTAC became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alight, Inc. (Alight, the Company, we us our or the Successor) and was renamed Alight Group, Inc. As a result of the Business Combination, and by virtue of such series of mergers and related transactions, the combined company is now organized in an Up-C structure, in which substantially all of the assets and business of Alight are held by Alight Holdings, of which Alight is the managing member pursuant to the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Alight Holdings that went into effect upon the completion of the Business Combination. As of June 30, 2022, Alight owns approximately 86% of the economic interest in Alight Holdings, but has 100% of the voting power and controls the management of Alight Holdings. As of June 30, 2022, the non-voting ownership percentage held by noncontrolling interest was approximately 14%. Principal Services and Segments We currently report our results of operations in three segments: Employer Solutions, Professional Services and Hosted Business. Employer Solutions, Professional Services and Hosted Business accounted for approximately 86%, 13% and 1% and 85%, 14% and 1% of consolidated revenue for both the Successor three and six months ended June 30, 2022 and both the Predecessor three and six months ended June 30, 2021, respectively. Employer Solutions: driven by our digital, software and artificial intelligence ("AI")-led capabilities powered by the Alight Worklife platform and spanning total employee wellbeing and engagement, including integrated benefits administration, healthcare navigation, financial health, employee wellbeing and payroll. These solutions are designed to support employers in effectively managing their workforce through a seamless, integrated platform. We leverage data across all interactions and activities to improve the employee experience, reduce operational costs and better inform management processes and decision-making. In addition, employees benefit from an integrated platform and user experience, coupled with a full-service client care center, helping them manage the full life cycle of their health, wealth and careers. Professional Services: includes our project-based cloud deployment and consulting offerings that provide expertise with both human capital and financial platforms. Specifically, this includes cloud advisory and deployment, and optimization services for cloud platforms such as Workday, SAP SuccessFactors, Oracle, and Cornerstone OnDemand. Revenue and Compensation Revenues are principally derived from fees paid by clients for services. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practice. 30 Technology We deliver our solutions through a set of proprietary and partner technologies, a well-developed network of providers and a structured approach to instill and sustain enterprise-wide practices of excellence. With this in mind, there are four layers to our technology strategy, all reinforced with a critical security framework: Omnichannel customer experience layer that drives a personalized approach for customers. AI and analytics layer that uses data from our transactional systems, combined with client and third-party data to drive insights for clients. Core transaction layer that powers our health, wealth and payroll systems. Infrastructure layer to provide security, stability and performance across our application landscape. Seasonality Due to buying patterns and delivery of certain products in the markets we serve, particularly given the timing of annual benefits enrollment, our revenues tend to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Licensing and Regulation Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, including United States (U.S.) federal and state laws. See the discussion contained in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report, for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. Clients We serve a broad range of clients, including Fortune 500 companies and mid-market businesses, and seek to establish high-quality, strong, long-term relationships with our clients. We proactively solicit client feedback through ongoing surveys and client councils held throughout the year, and we use this critical feedback to enhance our client services and correct course when necessary. Through these surveys, we have learned that clients value the strength and depth of our relationships, scale and breadth of our solutions and our commitment to innovation and continuous improvement. Competition The markets for our solutions are competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. Our business faces competition from other global and national companies. The market for our solutions is subject to change as a result of economic, regulatory and legislative changes, technological developments, shifting client needs and increased competition from established and new competitors. We do not believe there is any single competitor with the breadth of our solutions, and thus our competitors vary for each of our solutions. Our primary competitors include Accenture, Accolade, ADP, Benefitfocus, bswift, Businessolver, Cognizant, Conduent, Deloitte, eHealth, Empower, Fidelity, GoHealth, Grand Rounds, HealthEquity, Mercer, OneSource Virtual, Quantum Health, SD Worx, Vanguard, Voya, Willis Towers Watson, and Workday. We compete primarily on the basis of product and service quality, technology, breadth of offerings, ease of use and accessibility of technology, data protection, innovation, trust and reliability, price, and reputation. FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPARABILITY OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As a result of a number of factors, our historical results of operations are not comparable from period to period and may not be comparable to our financial results of operations in future periods. Set forth below is a brief discussion of the key factors that may impact the comparability of our results of operations in future operations. Impact of the Business Combination Alight is subject to corporate level tax rates at the federal, state and local levels. The Predecessor was and is treated as a flow-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and as such, has generally not been subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level. Accordingly, other than for certain consolidated subsidiaries of the Predecessor that are structured as corporations and unless otherwise specified, the historical results of operations and other financial information presented does not include any provision for U.S. federal income tax. Alight (together with certain corporate subsidiaries through which it owns its interest in the Predecessor) pays U.S. federal and state income taxes as a corporation on its share of our taxable income. The Business Combination was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities, including any identified intangible assets, were recorded at their fair values at the date of completion of the Business Combination, with any excess of the purchase price 31 over the fair value recorded as goodwill. The application of business combination accounting required the use of significant estimates and assumptions. As a result of the application of accounting for the Business Combination, the historical Consolidated Financial Statements of the Predecessor are not necessarily indicative of the Successors future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, increased tangible and intangible assets resulting from adjusting the basis of tangible and intangible assets to their fair value would result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the periods following the consummation of the Business Combination. In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement (the TRA) with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the TRA. Additionally, in connection with the Business Combination, we have accounted for Seller Earnout contingent consideration as a liability that requires remeasurement to fair value at the end of each reporting period and adopted the Alight 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan which will result in higher share-based compensation expenses. Lastly, the redemption of our Unsecured Senior Notes and partial paydown of the Term Loan in conjunction with the Business Combination, resulted in lower interest expense. Impact of Becoming a Public Company As a result of becoming a public company, we incur additional costs related to human resources, legal, consulting, regulatory, insurance, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS We prepared our discussion of the results of operations by comparing the results of the Successor three and six months ended June 30, 2022 to the results of the Predecessor three and six months ended June 30, 2021. The core business operations of the Predecessor and Successor were not significantly impacted by the consummation of the Business Combination. The following table sets forth our historical results of operations for the periods indicated below: Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, (in millions) 2022 2022 2021 2021 Revenue $ 715 $ 1,440 $ 672 $ 1,361 Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 483 974 436 888 Depreciation and amortization 13 24 19 38 Gross Profit 219 442 217 435 Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative 157 297 105 222 Depreciation and intangible amortization 85 170 56 111 Total operating expenses 242 467 161 333 Operating (Loss) Income (23 ) (25 ) 56 102 Other (Income) Expense Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (50 ) (63 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (38 ) (43 ) Interest expense 29 58 61 123 Other (income) expense, net (7 ) (8 ) 1 9 Total other (income) expense, net (66 ) (56 ) 62 132 Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Benefit 43 31 (6 ) (30 ) Income tax benefit (9 ) (8 ) (2 ) (5 ) Net Income (Loss) 52 39 (4 ) (25 ) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 1 (1 ) Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ 51 $ 40 $ (4 ) $ (25 ) 32 REVIEW OF RESULTS Key Components of Our Operations Revenue Our clients demand for our services ultimately drives our revenues. We generate primarily all of our revenue, which is highly recurring, from fees for services provided from contracts across all solutions, which is primarily based on a contracted fee charged per participant per period (e.g., monthly or annually, as applicable). Our contracts typically have three to five-year terms for ongoing services with mutual renewal options. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized over time when control of the promised services is transferred and the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of our services. Payment terms are consistent with industry practice. We calculate growth rates for each of our solutions in relation to recurring revenues and revenues from project work. One of the components of our growth in recurring revenues is the increase in net commercial activity which reflects items such as client wins and losses (Net Commercial Activity). We define client wins as sales to new clients and sales of new solutions to existing clients. We define client losses as instances where clients do not renew or terminate their arrangements in relation to individual solutions or all of the solutions that we provide. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization includes compensation-related and vendor costs directly attributable to client-related services and costs related to application development and client-related infrastructure. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses include the depreciation and amortization related to our hardware, software and application development. Depreciation and amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware, software and application development. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation-related costs for administrative and management employees, system and facilities expenses, and costs for external professional and consulting services. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses consist of charges relating to the depreciation of the property and equipment used in our business and the amortization of acquired customer-related and contract-based intangible assets and technology related intangible assets. Depreciation and intangible amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware and other equipment as well as amortization expense associated with future acquisitions. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period for the Seller Earnouts contingent consideration. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement Gain from change in fair value of Tax Receivable Agreement includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to our outstanding debt. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net includes non-operating expenses and income, including realized currency translation. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Revenue Revenues were $715 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $672 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $43 million reflects growth of 8% in our Employer Solutions segment, partially offset by declines of 9% and 1% in our Hosted Business segment and our Professional Services segment, respectively. We measure revenue growth as it relates to the cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and our next generation product suite, Business Process as a Service ("BPaaS") Solutions. These products capitalize on our robust data combined 33 with AI & analytics to deliver greater employee engagement and employer outcomes. BPaaS products and services span across both the Employer Solutions and Professional Services segments and for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $128 million, which represents growth of 36% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. In addition, we also consider BPaaS bookings, defined as total contract value for BPaaS customer agreements executed in the period, to be a key indicator of future revenue growth and used as a metric of commercial activity by management and investors. For the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, BPaaS bookings of $234 million represents a decline of 3% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Recurring revenues increased by $43 million, or 8%, from $558 million to $601 million and are related to growth in both Employer Solutions and Professional Services, partially offset by a decline in the Hosted Business. Growth in Employer Solutions is a result of higher revenues related to acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity. Growth in Professional Services is a result of increases in Net Commercial Activity. Project revenues were $114 million for both periods and are related to an increase in Employer Solutions, offset by a decline in Professional Services. The decline in Professional Services project revenues is driven by client timing delays. In addition, a majority of our revenue is generated in the U.S., which reflected all of the revenue increase for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $47 million, or 11%, for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2021, higher costs related to growth in current and forecasted future revenues, including investments in key resources and compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $52 million, or 50%, for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses increased $29 million, or 52%, for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by amortization related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the Business Combination completed in the third quarter of 2021 and acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter of 2021. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments A gain from a change in the fair value of financial instruments of $50 million was recorded for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022. The gain is due to the revaluation of our financial instruments, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have outstanding financial instruments in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement A gain from the change in the fair value of the tax receivable agreement of $38 million was recorded for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022. The revaluation gain is due to changes in the discount rate, partially offset by accretion of interest and changes in the Company's assumptions related to the timing of the utilization of the tax attributes during the term of the TRA, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have a tax receivable agreement in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $32 million, or 52%, for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to the redemption of our Unsecured Senior Notes and partial paydown of the Term Loan each in conjunction with the Business Combination completed during the third quarter of 2021. See Note 8 Debt for additional information. Income (Loss) before Income Tax Benefit Income before income tax benefit was $43 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, an improvement of $49 million compared to a loss before income tax benefit of $6 million for the Predecessor three months ended June 30, 2021, due to the drivers identified above. 34 Income Tax Benefit Income tax benefit was $9 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to an income tax benefit of $2 million in the Predecessor prior year period. The effective tax rate of (21%) for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 is lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to losses in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which a tax benefit has not been recorded. The effective tax rate of 34% for the Predecessor three months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily driven by foreign and state income taxes payable in jurisdictions where the Company had operations that generated operating income. See Note 7 Income Taxes for additional information. Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Revenue Revenues were $1,440 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $1,361 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $79 million reflects growth of 7% in our Employer Solutions segment and 5% in our Hosted Business segment, partially offset by a decline of 2% in our Professional Services segment. We measure revenue growth as it relates to the cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and our next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. These products capitalize on our robust data combined with AI & analytics to deliver greater employee engagement and employer outcomes. BPaaS products and services span across both the Employer Solutions and Professional Services segments and for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $242 million, which represents growth of 29% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. In addition, we also consider BPaaS bookings, defined as total contract value for BPaaS customer agreements executed in the period, to be a key indicator of future revenue growth and used as a metric of commercial activity by management and investors. For the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, BPaaS bookings of $356 million represents growth of 27% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Recurring revenues increased by $83 million, or 7%, from $1,130 million to $1,213 million and are related to growth in all three segments. Growth in Employer Solutions is a result of higher revenues related to acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity. Growth in Professional Services is a result of increases in Net Commercial Activity. Project revenues decreased by $4 million, or 2%, from $231 million to $227 million and are related to a decline in Professional Services, partially offset by growth in Employer Solutions. The decline in Professional Services project revenues is driven by client timing delays. In addition, a majority of our revenue is generated in the U.S., which reflected 98% of the revenue increase for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $86 million, or 10%, for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2021, higher costs related to growth in current and forecasted future revenues, including investments in key resources and compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $75 million, or 34%, for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses increased $59 million, or 53%, for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by amortization related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the Business Combination completed in the third quarter of 2021 and acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter of 2021. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments A gain from a change in the fair value of financial instruments of $63 million was recorded for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022. The gain is due to the revaluation of our financial instruments, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have outstanding financial instruments in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. 35 Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement A gain from the change in the fair value of the tax receivable agreement of $43 million was recorded for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022. The revaluation gain is due to changes in the discount rate, partially offset by accretion of interest and changes in the Company's assumptions related to the timing of the utilization of the tax attributes during the term of the TRA, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have a tax receivable agreement in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $65 million, or 53%, for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to the redemption of our Unsecured Senior Notes and partial paydown of the Term Loan in conjunction with the Business Combination completed during the third quarter of 2021. See Note 8 Debt for additional information. Income (Loss) before Income Tax Benefit Income before income tax benefit was $31 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, an improvement of $61 million compared to a loss before income tax benefit of $30 million for the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021, due to the drivers identified above. Income Tax Benefit Income tax benefit was $8 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to an income tax benefit of $5 million in the Predecessor prior year period. The effective tax rate of (24%) for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 is lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to losses in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which a tax benefit has not been recorded. The effective tax rate of 16% for the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily driven by foreign and state income taxes payable in jurisdictions where the Company had operations that generated operating income. See Note 7 Income Taxes for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is used to enhance our management and stakeholders understanding of certain aspects of our financial performance. This discussion is not meant to be considered in isolation, superior to, or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management also uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to manage and evaluate the business, make planning decisions, allocate resources and as performance measures for Company-wide bonus plans. These key financial measures provide an additional view of our operational performance over the long-term and provide useful information that we use in order to maintain and grow our business. The measures referred to as adjusted, have limitations as analytical tools, and such measures should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of the limitations are: Measure does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; Measure does not reflect our interest expense or the cash requirements to service interest or principal payments on our indebtedness; Measure does not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes, including payments related to the Tax Receivable Agreement; Measure does not reflect the impact on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated or amortized will often need to be replaced in the future, and the adjusted measure does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and Other companies may calculate adjusted measures differently, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Adjusted Net Income, which is defined as net income attributable to Alight, Inc. adjusted for intangible amortization and the impact of certain non-cash items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used solely for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by the adjusted weighted-average number of shares of common stock, diluted. The adjusted weighted shares calculation includes non-vested time-based restricted units that were determined to be antidilutive and therefore excluded from the U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per 36 Share, including the adjusted weighted-average number of shares, is used by us and our investors to evaluate our core operating performance and to benchmark our operating performance against our competitors. A reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to Net Income Attributable to Alight, Inc. and the computation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is as follows: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, (in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2022 2022 Numerator: Net Income Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ 51 $ 40 Conversion of noncontrolling interest 1 (1 ) Intangible amortization 80 159 Share-based compensation 42 75 Transaction and integration expenses 3 9 Restructuring 14 20 Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (50 ) (63 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (38 ) (43 ) Other 1 3 Tax effect of adjustments (1) (39 ) (67 ) Adjusted Net Income $ 65 $ 132 Denominator: Weighted average shares outstanding - basic 457,851,348 457,347,581 Dilutive effect of the exchange of noncontrolling interest units 75,886,716 75,886,716 Dilutive effect of RSUs 836,356 Weighted average shares outstanding - diluted 533,738,064 534,070,653 Impact of unvested RSUs (2) 10,791,134 9,954,778 Adjusted shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding - diluted 544,529,198 544,025,431 Basic Earnings Per Share $ 0.11 $ 0.09 Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 0.10 $ 0.07 Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (3) (4) $ 0.12 $ 0.24 (1) Income tax effects have been calculated based on statutory tax rates for both U.S. and foreign jurisdictions based on the Company's mix of income and adjusted for significant changes in fair value measurement. (2) Includes non-vested time-based restricted stock units that were determined to be antidilutive for U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share purposes. (3) Excludes two tranches of contingently issuable earnout shares: (i) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") of the Company's Class A Common Stock is >$12.50 for 20 consecutive trading days; and (ii) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the VWAP of the Company's Class A Common Stock is >$15.00 for 20 consecutive trading dates. Both tranches have a seven-year duration. (4) Excludes 34,577,418 performance-based units, which represents maximum achievement of the respective performance conditions for units granted during the year ended December 31, 2021 and the six months ended June 30, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures Adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and intangible amortization adjusted for the impact of certain non-cash and other items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management and our stakeholders to provide useful supplemental information that enables a better comparison of our performance across periods. Both Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures are non-GAAP measures that are used by management and stakeholders to evaluate our core operating performance. 37 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or to distribute to stockholders or as a measure of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures to Net Income (Loss) is as follows: Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, (in millions) 2022 2022 2021 2021 Net Income (Loss) $ 52 $ 39 $ (4 ) $ (25 ) Interest expense 29 58 61 123 Income tax benefit (9 ) (8 ) (2 ) (5 ) Depreciation 18 35 25 49 Intangible amortization 80 159 50 100 EBITDA 170 283 130 242 Share-based compensation 42 75 3 5 Transaction and integration expenses (1) 3 9 Non-recurring professional expenses (2) 9 18 Restructuring 14 20 2 9 Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (50 ) (63 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (38 ) (43 ) Other (3) 1 3 1 4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 142 $ 284 $ 145 $ 278 Capital expenditures (38 ) (79 ) (28 ) (55 ) Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures $ 104 $ 205 $ 117 $ 223 (1) Transaction and integration expenses includes activity related to acquisitions. (2) Non-recurring professional expenses includes external advisor and legal costs related to the Companys Business Combination completed in 2021. (3) For the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, other primarily includes expenses related to debt refinancing completed in the first quarter of 2022 and other non-operational expenses. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, other includes long-term incentive expenses. Segment Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Employer Solutions Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, ($ in millions) 2022 2022 2021 2021 Employer Solutions Revenue Recurring revenue $ 559 $ 1,129 $ 516 $ 1,049 Project revenue 55 108 53 107 Total Employer Solutions Revenue $ 614 $ 1,237 $ 569 $ 1,156 Employer Solutions Gross Profit $ 200 $ 404 $ 191 $ 392 Employer Solutions Gross Profit Margin 33 % 33 % 34 % 34 % Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 147 $ 289 $ 138 $ 274 Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA Margin 24 % 23 % 24 % 24 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." 38 Employer Solutions Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Employer Solutions Revenue Employer Solutions revenue was $614 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $569 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The overall increase of $45 million was due to an increase of recurring revenues of $43 million, or 8%, from $516 million to $559 million as a result of acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity and an increase in project revenues of $2 million, or 4%, from $53 million to $55 million. Employer Solutions Gross Profit Employer Solutions gross profit was $200 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $191 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $9 million, or 5%, was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above and partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and forecasted future revenues and compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA was $147 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $138 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $9 million was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above, partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and forecasted future revenues, including investments in our commercial functions and technology. For the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $96 million and share-based compensation of $36 million, partially offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and the TRA of $80 million. For the Predecessor three months ended June 30, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $67 million and share-based compensation of $2 million. Employer Solutions Segment Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Employer Solutions Revenue Employer Solutions revenue was $1,237 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $1,156 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The overall increase of $81 million was due to an increase of recurring revenues of $80 million, or 8%, from $1,049 million to $1,129 million as a result of acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity and an increase in project revenues of $1 million, or 1%, from $107 million to $108 million. Employer Solutions Gross Profit Employer Solutions gross profit was $404 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $392 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $12 million, or 3%, was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above and partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and forecasted future revenues and compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021 . Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA was $289 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $274 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $15 million was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above, partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and forecasted future revenues, including investments in our commercial functions and technology. For the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $188 million and share-based compensation of $65 million, partially offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and the TRA of $96 million. For the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $134 million and share-based compensation of $4 million. 39 Professional Services Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, ($ in millions) 2022 2022 2021 2021 Professional Services Revenue Recurring revenue $ 32 $ 62 $ 31 $ 60 Project revenue 59 119 61 124 Total Professional Services Revenue $ 91 $ 181 $ 92 $ 184 Professional Services Gross Profit $ 20 $ 39 $ 26 $ 46 Professional Services Gross Profit Margin 22 % 22 % 28 % 25 % Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ 7 $ 7 Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA Margin -3 % -2 % 8 % 4 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Professional Services Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Professional Services Revenue Professional Services revenue was $91 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $92 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $1 million, or 1%, was due to a decrease in project revenues of $2 million, or 3%, from $61 million to $59 million, partially offset by an increase of recurring revenues of $1 million, or 3%, from $31 million to $32 million. The decline in Professional Services project revenues is driven by client timing delays. Professional Services Gross Profit Professional Services gross profit was $20 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $26 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $6 million, or 23%, was primarily due to increases in costs associated with growth of forecasted future revenues, including investments in key resources and revenue declines as discussed above. Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA was ($3) million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $7 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $10 million, or 143%, is primarily due to increases in costs associated with growth of forecasted future revenues, including investments in our commercial functions. For the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $2 million and share-based compensation of $5 million, offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and the TRA of $8 million. For the Predecessor three months ended June 30, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $7 million and share-based compensation of $1 million. Professional Services Segment Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Professional Services Revenue Professional Services revenue was $181 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $184 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $3 million, or 2%, was due to a decrease in project revenues of $5 million, or 4%, from $124 million to $119 million, partially offset by an increase of recurring revenues of $2 million, or 3%, from $60 million to $62 million. The decline in Professional Services project revenues is driven by client timing delays. Professional Services Gross Profit Professional Services gross profit was $39 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $46 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $7 million, or 15%, was primarily due to increases in costs associated with growth of forecasted future revenues, including investments in key resources and revenue declines as discussed above. Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA ($3) million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $7 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $10 million, or 143%, is primarily due to increases in costs associated 40 with growth of forecasted future revenues, including investments in our commercial functions. For the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $5 million and share-based compensation of $9 million, partially offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and the TRA of $10 million. For the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $13 million and share-based compensation of $1 million. Hosted Business Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, ($ in millions) 2022 2022 2021 2021 Hosted Business Revenue Recurring revenue $ 10 $ 22 $ 11 $ 21 Total Hosted Business Revenue 10 22 $ 11 $ 21 Hosted Business Gross Profit $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ (3 ) Hosted Business Gross Profit Margin -10 % -5 % 0 % -14 % Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ $ (3 ) Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA Margin -21 % -9 % 0 % -14 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Hosted Business Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Hosted Business Revenue Hosted Business revenue was $10 million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $11 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $1 million, or 9%, was due to volumes. Hosted Business Gross Profit Hosted Business gross profit was ($1) million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to an immaterial amount for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $1 million was due to lower revenue as discussed above. Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA was ($2) million for the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to an immaterial amount for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $2 million was primarily due to lower revenue as discussed above. For the Successor three months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses attributable to the Hosted Business segment that are not included in Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA included share-based compensation of $1 million. For the Predecessor three months ended June 30, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Hosted Business segment that are not included in Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $1 million. Hosted Business Segment Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 (Predecessor) Hosted Business Revenue Hosted Business revenue was $22 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 as compared to $21 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $1 million, or 5%, was due to volumes. Hosted Business Gross Profit Hosted Business gross profit ($1) million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to immaterial for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $1 million was due to lower revenue as discussed above. Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA was ($2) million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, as compared to an immaterial amount for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $2 million was primarily due to lower revenue as discussed above. For the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022, material expenses attributable to the Hosted Business segment that are not included in Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $1 million and share-based 41 compensation of $1 million. For the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021 material expenses attributable to the Hosted Business segment that are not included in Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $2 million. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity Executive Summary Our primary sources of liquidity include our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses, funding of our debt requirements and capital expenditures. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, payments on our Tax Receivable Agreement and anticipated working capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We believe our liquidity position at June 30, 2022 remains strong. We continue to closely monitor and proactively manage our liquidity position in light of changing economic conditions and the impact of a rising interest rate environment. Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown in Fiduciary assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds are not used for general corporate purposes and are not a source of liquidity for us. The following table provides a summary of cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods presented. Successor Predecessor Six Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, (in millions) 2022 2021 Cash provided by operating activities $ 118 $ 58 Cash used for investing activities (79 ) (55 ) Cash used for financing activities (56 ) (64 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (9 ) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (26 ) (61 ) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of period $ 1,626 $ 1,475 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $60 million to $118 million for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 from $58 million for the Predecessor prior year period, driven by an increase in our net income position and a decrease in working capital requirements, partially offset by lower non-cash items. Working capital requirements decreased by $4 million primarily related to cash receipts related to commissions receivable and net impacts of higher deferred revenues and costs associated with new client implementations, partially offset by the timing of billings. The decrease in non-cash items of $8 million is primarily due to gains from changes in fair value for both financial instruments and the tax receivable agreement, partially offset by higher intangible amortization and share-based compensation expenses, all of which were related to the Business Combination completed in the third quarter of 2021. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 and Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021 was $79 million and $55 million, respectively, driven by capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash used for financing activities for the Successor six months ended June 30, 2022 was $56 million. The primary drivers of the cash used for financing activities were loan repayments of $126 million, payments for deferred consideration of $81 million, finance lease payments of $17 million, payments for settlements related to interest rate swaps of $6 million and financing fees related to debt refinancing of $3 million, partially offset by a net increase in the cash flow from borrowings of $104 million and client funds obligations of $74 million, primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments. Cash used for financing activities for the Predecessor six months ended June 30, 2021 was $64 million. The primary drivers of the cash used for financing activities were loan repayments of $124 million, finance lease payments of $17 million, a net decrease in 42 the cash flow from client funds obligations of $15 million, primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments, payments for settlements related to interest rate swaps of $14 million, unit repurchases of $2 million, and payments for contingent consideration of $1 million, partially offset by bank borrowings of $110 million. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Fiduciary Assets At June 30, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $272 million, a decrease of $100 million from December 31, 2021. Of the total balances of cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, none of the balances were restricted as to use. Some of our client agreements require us to hold funds on behalf of clients to pay obligations on their behalf. The levels of Fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly, depending on when we collect the amounts from clients and make payments on their behalf. Such funds are not available to service our debt or for other corporate purposes. There is typically a short period of time between when the Company receives funds and when it pays obligations on behalf of clients. We are entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds, when investment strategies are deployed, in accordance with industry custom and practice, which has historically been immaterial. In our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amount we report for Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities are equal. Our Fiduciary assets included cash of $1,354 million and $1,280 million at June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Other Liquidity Matters Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. For further information, see the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report. We do not have any material business, operations or assets in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine and we have not been materially impacted by the actions of the Russian government. Our total revenues from these three countries are de minimis for all periods presented. Tax Receivable Agreement In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into the TRA with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement. Actual tax benefits realized by Alight may differ from tax benefits calculated under the TRA as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the TRA, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, we expect that the payments that Alight may make under the TRA will be substantial. As of June 30, 2022, we do not expect to make any material payments within the next year, and anticipate payments to become more material beginning in 2024. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our obligations and commitments during the six months ended June 30, 2022. Our material contractual obligations include debt, non-cancellable contractual service and purchase obligations and lease obligations. For additional information regarding debt and non-cancellable contractual service and purchases obligations, see the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Note 8 Debt, and Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates There were no material changes from the Critical Accounting Estimates disclosed in the Annual Report. Please refer to "Critical Accounting Estimates" described in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of the Annual Report, from which there have been no material changes. 43 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitati ve Disclosures About Market Risk. For