ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Foley Trasimene Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsors refer to Trasimene Capital Management FT, LP, an affiliate of Trasimene Capital Management, LLC, and Bilcar FT, LP, an affiliate of Bilcar Limited Partnership. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and the audited financial statements and Management Discussion and Analysis contained in the Company Form 10-K/A for the period ended December 31, 2020. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on April 29, 2020. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on March 26, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the private placement of the Private Placement Warrants, the proceeds of the sale of our shares in connection with our initial Business Combination, shares issued to the owners of the target, debt issued to bank or other lenders or the owners of the target, or a combination of the foregoing. The issuance of additional shares in connection with an initial Business Combination, including the issuance of forward purchase securities: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in our Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of our Class A common stock on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of our Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of our Class A common stock if shares of preferred stock are issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and/or warrants. 17 Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial Business Combination. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. The Companys management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. The Company must complete its initial Business Combination with one or more target businesses that together have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (excluding any deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable on the interest earned in the Trust Account) at the time the Company signs a definitive agreement in connection with a Business Combination. The Company will only complete a Business Combination if the post-Business Combination company owns or acquires 50% or more of the issued and outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target business sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully effect a Business Combination. In March 2020, the World Health Organization classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve. The impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and related advisories and restrictions. These developments and the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on the financial markets and the overall economy are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If the financial markets and/or the overall economy continue to be impacted for an extended period, our ability to complete our initial Business Combination may be materially adversely affected due to significant governmental measures being implemented to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or treat its impact, including travel restrictions, the shutdown of businesses and quarantines, among others, which may limit our ability to have meetings with potential investors or affect the ability of a potential target company's personnel, vendors and service providers to negotiate and consummate our initial Business Combination in a timely manner. Recent Developments On January 25, 2021, we entered into the Business Combination Agreement by and among the Company, Alight, Alight Pubco, FTAC Merger Sub, Tempo Merger Sub, the Blocker Merger Subs and the Tempo Blockers. The Business Combination Agreement contemplates the consummation of the Pending Business Combination: (i) FTAC Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company being the surviving corporation in the merger and becoming a subsidiary of Alight Pubco (the Pubco Merger) and (ii) Alight Pubco will, through a series of mergers and related transactions, acquire equity interests in Alight and the Tempo Blockers. Following the consummation of the Business Combination, the combined company will be organized in an Up-C structure, in which substantially all of the assets and business of Alight Pubco will be held by Alight. The combined companys business will continue to operate through the subsidiaries of Alight. 18 The consideration to be paid to the pre-Closing equityholders of Alight and the pre-Closing equityholders of the Tempo Blockers (in connection with the merger of the Tempo Merger Sub with and into Alight (the Tempo Merger) and the merger of the Tempo Blocker Merger Subs with and into the Tempo Blockers, respectively, and certain other transactions at the closing of the Busines Combination (the Closing) will be a combination of cash and equity consideration. The Pending Business Combination will be consummated subject to the deliverables and provisions as further described in the Business Combination Agreement. Subject to the satisfaction of requisite conditions, we expect the Pending Business Combination to close in the second quarter of 2021. Unless explicitly stated, this Quarterly Report does not assume the closing of the Pending Business Combination. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception have been organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for our Initial Public Offering and identifying a target company for our initial Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as expenses as we conduct due diligence on prospective Business Combination candidates. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net income of $78,081,660, which consists of consists of non-cash gains of $46,915,666 and $34,305,798 related to changes in the fair value of the Warrants and FPAs, respectively, formation and operating costs of $3,257,784 and interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $136,051, offset by a provision for income taxes of $18,071. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through March 31, 2020, we had a net loss of $959, which consists exclusively of formation and operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had cash of $236,123 outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to continue business due diligence on prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete our initial Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with our initial Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete our initial Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that our initial Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.50 per warrant at the option of the lender. In May 2020, the Company entered into forward purchase agreements (the FPAs) with each of Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC. Pursuant to each agreement, Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC have each agreed to purchase shares of the Companys Class A common stock in an aggregate share amount equal to 15,000,000 shares of the Companys Class A Common stock (or a total of 30,000,000 shares of the Companys Class A common stock), plus an aggregate of 5,000,000 redeemable warrants (or a total of 10,000,000 redeemable warrants) to purchase one share of the Companys Class A common stock at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $150,000,000 (or a total of $300,000,000), or $10.00 for one share of the Companys Class A common stock and one-third of one warrant, in a private placement to occur concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. The warrants to be sold as part of the FPAs will be identical to the warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash and marketable securities of $1,035,985,318 held in the Trust Account. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes paid and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our initial Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay taxes. During the period ended March 31, 2021, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. For the three months ended March 21, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $260,347. Net income of $78,081,660 was affected by the non-cash gain on the change in fair value of the Warrants of $46,915,666, non-cash gain on the change in fair value of the FPAs of $34,305,798, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $136,051 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $3,015,508 of cash from operating activities. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through March 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $0. Net loss of $959 was affected by changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $959 of cash from operating activities. 19 We do not currently believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating our initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our initial Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements within the meaning of the applicable SEC rules as of March 31, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsors a monthly fee up to $5,000 for office space and administrative support services. We began incurring these fees on May 26, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $36,225,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. See discussion under the header Liquidity and Capital Resources above for discussion of our obligation to issue securities pursuant to the FPAs and discussion under the header Recent Developments for discussion of the Pending Business Combination and related Business Combination Agreement. The Company will provide its stockholders with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their Public Shares upon the completion of a Business Combination either (i) in connection with a stockholder meeting called to approve a Business Combination (including the Pending Business Combination) or (ii) by means of a tender offer. The decision as to whether the Company will seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination or conduct a tender offer will be made by the Company. The stockholders will be entitled to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the amount held in the Trust Account (initially $10.00 per share), calculated as of two business days prior to the completion of a Business Combination (including the Pending Business Combination), including any pro rata interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the Company to pay its tax obligations. There will be no redemption rights upon the completion of a Business Combination or the Pending Business Combination with respect to the Companys warrants. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of unaudited condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting estimates: 20 Warrant and FPA Liabilities The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPAs as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the specific terms of the Warrants and FPAs and the applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the Warrants and FPAs are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the Warrants and FPAs are indexed to the Companys own common shares and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of the Companys control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of issuance of the Warrants and execution of the FPAs and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the Warrants and FPAs are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, such warrants are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, such warrants are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of liability-classified warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPAs in accordance with ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants and FPAs do not meet the criteria for equity classification and must be recorded as liabilities. See Note 8 to our unaudited condensed financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report for further discussion of the pertinent terms of the Warrants and Note 9 for further discussion of the methodology used to determine the fair value of the warrant and FPA liabilities. Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheet. 21 Net Income (Loss) per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account for the period, net of applicable taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding during the period. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for and Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock for the period, by the weighted average number of shares of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding during the period presented.