ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact that our new products and product enhancements will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of the Scanner and Services ("Scanner") business, our expectations to increase our investment in manufacturing capacity, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, the anticipated number of new doctors trained, the expected date our iTero Element Intraoral Scanner will be available, the effectiveness of our new training course and its impact on volumes, our expectations regarding our stock repurchase program, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins, and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Align Technology, Inc. is a global medical device company that advanced the invisible orthodontics market with the introduction of the Invisalign System in 1999. Today, we are focused on designing, manufacturing and marketing innovative technology-rich products to help dental professionals achieve the clinical results they expect and deliver effective, convenient cutting-edge dental treatment options to their patients. Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and is headquartered in San Jose, California with offices worldwide. Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner, known as the Invisalign System; and (2) Scanner and Services ("Scanner"), known as the iTero intra-oral scanners and OrthoCAD services. We received FDA clearance in 1998 and began our first commercial sales of Invisalign to U.S. orthodontists in 1999 followed by U.S. General Practitioner Dentists ("GPs") in 2002. Over the next decade, we introduced Invisalign to the European market and Japan, added distribution partners in Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Europe Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and introduced a full range of treatment options including Invisalign Express 10, Invisalign Teen, Invisalign Assist, and Vivera Retainers. By 2011, we launched significant new aligner and software features across all Invisalign products that make it easier for doctors to use Invisalign on more complex cases, and introduced Invisalign to the Peoples Republic of China. In 2013, we launched SmartTrack, the next generation of Invisalign clear aligner material, which became the new standard aligner material for Invisalign products in North America, Europe and other international markets where we have obtained regulatory approval. Over the last several years we have continued to build upon our technology and expertise to deliver enhanced clinical innovations aimed at helping our customers treat some of the most challenging cases. These innovations, both launched in early 2014, include Invisalign G5, specifically designed for treatment of deep bite malocclusion, as well as ClinCheck Pro, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool designed to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. Most recently, we began the initial commercialization of Invisalign G6 clinical innovations for first premolar extraction during the first quarter of 2015. We also sell iTero intra-oral scanners and provide computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAD/CAM") services. Intra-oral scanners provide a dental chair-side platform for accessing valuable digital diagnosis and treatment tools, with potential for enhancing accuracy of records, treatment efficiency, and the overall patient experience. We believe there are numerous benefits for customers and the opportunity to accelerate the adoption of Invisalign through interoperability with our intra-oral scanners. The use of digital technologies such as CAD/CAM for restorative dentistry or in-office restorations has been growing rapidly and intra-oral scanning is a critical part of enabling these new digital technologies and procedures in dental practices. In late 2012, we commercially launched the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, the first Invisalign chair-side application powered by the iTero scanner. The interactive application provides dentists and orthodontists an enhanced platform for patient education and is designed to increase treatment acceptance by helping patients visualize the benefits possible with Invisalign treatment. In March 2015, we announced our next generation iTero Element Intraoral Scanner which features a more compact 21 footprint, enhanced wand and multi-touch display and is engineered to enable faster scan speeds for more efficient, real-time clinical evaluation. We believe in an open systems approach to our technologies and are committed to working with other intra-oral scanning companies interested in developing interoperability for use with Invisalign treatment. In January 2014, we announced that the 3M True Definition scanner was qualified for use with Invisalign case submissions. This qualification enables Invisalign providers with a True Definition scanner to submit a digital impression in place of a traditional PVS impression as part of the Invisalign case submission process. In March 2015, we announced that the Sirona CEREC Omnicam with the new CEREC Ortho software 1.1 was qualified for use with Invisalign case submissions. The new CEREC Ortho software is expected to be rolled out in the summer of 2015. The 3M True Definition scanner and Sirona CEREC Omnicam scanner are the only third-party scanners that have been qualified for use with Invisalign treatment. The Invisalign System is offered in more than 80 countries and has been used to treat more than 3.0 million patients. Our iTero intra-oral scanner, which is primarily sold in North America, provides dental professionals with an open choice to send digital impressions to any laboratory-based CAD/CAM system or to any of the more than 3,060 dental labs worldwide. Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intra-oral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers set forth in the Business Strategy section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful execution of our business strategy and our results in 2015 and beyond may be affected by a number of other factors including: Retirement of our CEO. We recently announced that our President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), Thomas M. Prescott, will retire effective June 1, 2015. Effective the same date, Joseph M. Hogan will join us as President and CEO, and will also serve as a Director on our Board. Mr. Prescott has served as our President and CEO for 13 years and has been instrumental in the development, implementation and execution of our strategy and operations. Mr. Prescott will continue to serve on our Board of Directors. While we expect to engage in an orderly transition with Mr. Hogan as our new CEO, our ability to execute our business strategies and retain key personnel may be adversely affected by the uncertainty associated with this transition. New Products, Feature Enhancements and Technology Innovation . Product innovation drives greater treatment predictability and clinical applicability, and ease of use for our customers, which supports adoption of Invisalign in their practices. Increasing applicability and treating more complex cases requires that we move away from individual features to more comprehensive solutions so that Invisalign providers can more predictably treat the whole case, such as with Invisalign G5 for deep bite treatment. Launched in February 2014, Invisalign G5 was engineered to help doctors achieve even better clinical outcomes when treating patients with deep bites - a prevalent orthodontic problem. In North America, in February 2014 and Internationally in the first quarter of 2015, we launched ClinCheck Pro, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to provide more precise control over final tooth position and to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. Invisalign G6 clinical innovations for premolar extraction became available to Invisalign-trained providers beginning in the first quarter of 2015 with limited commercialization. Full commercialization of Invisalign G6 in Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Asia Pacific, and Latin America geographies will occur throughout 2015 and in North America in early 2016. Invisalign G6 is engineered to improve clinical outcomes for orthodontic treatment of severe crowding and bimaxillary protrusion. Most recently, in March 2015, we announced the next generation iTero Element Intraoral Scanner with improved imaging technology that is designed to enable significantly faster scan speed, accuracy, intuitive operation, and visualization capabilities. Availability for the iTero Element Intraoral Scanner is expected in the second half of 2015. We believe that over the long-term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. Invisalign Utilization rates. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as "utilization rates." Our quarterly utilization rates for the previous 9 quarters are as follows: 22 * Invisalign Utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to Total utilization in the first quarter of 2015 was 4.5 cases per doctor compared to 4.3 in the first quarter of 2014. Utilization among our North American orthodontist customers reached an all time high of 9.0 cases per doctor in the first quarter 2015 from 8.1 in the first quarter of 2014. International doctor utilization increased slightly to 4.4 in the first quarter of 2015 from 4.3 in the first quarter of 2014. North American GP doctor utilization was 2.9 in the first quarter of 2015 flat, with the first quarter of 2014. The increase in North America orthodontist utilization reflects improvements in product and technology, which continues to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign such that they now utilize Invisalign more often and on more complex cases, including their teenage patients. Increased International utilization reflects growth in both the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions driven by go-to-market and sales coverage investments, improving clinical education and support as well as ongoing technology innovation. We expect that over the long-term our utilization rates will gradually improve as a result of advancements in product and technology, which continue to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign, along with the implementation of our Go-To-Market strategy (as discussed below); however, we expect that our utilization rates may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including seasonal trends in our business along with adoption rates of new products and features. Number of new Invisalign doctors trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. In 2014, Invisalign growth was driven primarily by increased utilization by our North American orthodontist doctors and International doctors as well as by the continued expansion of our customer base as we trained a total of 9,440 new Invisalign doctors, of which 56% were trained internationally. GPs are one of the keys to driving growth in the adult segment, and, in 2014, we launched Invisalign Fundamentals, a new training course, designed to improve practice integration and increase utilization for newly trained doctors. We have implemented this new Invisalign Fundamentals program across North America and will look for opportunities to adjust our international training programs as we work to help our GP practices worldwide more successfully adopt Invisalign into their practices. We believe that this new training approach has the potential to increase the number of doctors submitting cases 90-days post-training, as well as the number of cases submitted per doctor. During the first quarter of 2015, we trained 2,410 new Invisalign doctors. International Clear Aligner. We will continue to focus our efforts towards increasing adoption of our products by dental professionals in our direct international markets. On a year over year basis, international volume increased 29.0% driven primarily by growth in Europe as well as by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region. In 2015, we are continuing to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional 23 marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in selected country markets. We expect international revenues to continue to grow at a faster rate than North America for the foreseeable future due to our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunity, and our relatively low market penetration in this region. Go-To-Market Evolution. In order to provide more comprehensive sales and service coverage, we are currently implementing an updated go-to-market strategy with an expanded team and new structure in North America. In order to ensure our North America sales and marketing team can increase time in-office and help each practice become more successful, we are adding approximately 50 sales team members in 2015, the majority of which are in place as of the end of the first quarter. We believe that these investments in a refined go-to-market strategy and the strategic deployment of more people will improve adoption and utilization of Invisalign by our customers. Operating Expenses. We expect operating expenses to increase in 2015 compared to 2014 due in part to: the increase in North American sales force coverage discussed above, as well as additions to our sales force in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions infrastructure investments, including a project to implement a new enterprise resource planning system which we started in late 2014 with expected "go-live" for various modules and subsidiaries throughout 2016; and investments in new products and markets like our recently announced intention to develop new products for dentists who treat mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea with oral appliance therapy. We believe that these investments will position us to increase our revenue and continue to grow our market share. Increase in Invisalign Selling Price. We have historically invested in research and development and continuous product innovation. In order to continue and even accelerate this product innovation cycle, we recently announced a price increase of approximately 3% on Invisalign Full and Invisalign Teen products. In North America, the increase is $50 per treatment effective April 1, 2015, and internationally, the price increase is 50 euros per treatment, effective July 1, 2015. The prices for Invisalign Assist, Invisalign Express 10 and Invisalign Express 5/Lite products will remain unchanged. Foreign exchange rates. Although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a portion of our net revenues and income are generated in foreign currencies. Net revenues and income generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and as a result are affected by changes in exchange rates. We have generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk; therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of net revenues and income in our consolidated financial statements. In the first quarter of 2015, our net revenues were negatively impacted by $4.2 million in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2014, and we incurred foreign currency translation net losses of $1.7 million in Interest and Other Income (Expense) net, primarily due to the weakening of the Euro and other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. If the U.S. Dollar continues to strengthen compared to other foreign currencies, including the Euro, our reported amount of net revenues and income will be negatively impacted compared to the same period last year. Medical Device Excise Tax . During March 2014, Align had extensive discussions with the IRS and they informed us that our aligners are not subject to the medical device excise tax ("MDET") which we had been paying and expensing in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations since January 1, 2013; however, our scanners are still subject to the MDET. As a result of these discussions, beginning in March 2014, we ceased expensing and paying the MDET for aligners. In June 2014, we received a $1.2 million refund for MDET paid in 2014 related to our aligners which reduced selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2014. In the current quarter, the IRS approved our refund claim of $6.8 million MDET paid in 2013 related to our aligners, and we have recorded a receivable in Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets as of March 31, 2015. Stock Repurchase Authorization. On April 23, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we may purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock over the next three years, with $100.0 million of that amount authorized to be purchased over the first twelve months. Any purchases under this stock repurchase program may be made, from time-to-time, pursuant to open market purchases (including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans), privately-negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchases, block trades or derivative contracts or otherwise in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 24 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The program does not obligate Align to acquire any particular amount of common stock and depending on market conditions or other factors these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time, or from time-to-time without prior notice. The authorization or continuance of any repurchases under stock repurchase programs is contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such stock repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our stock repurchase program will have a beneficial impact on our stock price. In January 2015, we repurchased approximately $1.8 million, completing the first $100.0 million under the program, and our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of the next $100.0 million under the repurchase program which we anticipate completing within twelve months. As of March 31, 2015, there is $200.0 million remaining under the April 2014 stock repurchase program. On April 28, 2015, a s part of our $300.0 million stock repurchase program, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement ("ASR") to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock. Under the terms of the ASR, we paid $70.0 million on April 29, 2015 and received an initial delivery of approximately 0.8 million shares based on current market prices. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, less an agreed upon discount. We expect to finance the ASR with current cash on hand and for it to be completed by July 29, 2015. Results of Operations Net revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner and Services segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of our Invisalign system which includes Invisalign Full, Teen and Assist ("Full Products"), Express/Lite ("Express Products"),Vivera retainers, along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner and Services ("Scanner") segment consists of intra-oral scanning systems and additional services available with the intra-oral scanners that provide digital alternatives to the traditional cast models. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner segment by region and product and our Scanner segment by region for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in millions). For the Three Months Ended, March 31, Net Revenues 2015 2014 Net Change % Change Clear Aligner Revenues: North America $ 118.8 $ 107.9 $ 10.9 10.1 % International 55.9 49.8 6.1 12.2 % Invisalign non-case net revenues 12.3 10.5 1.8 17.1 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 187.0 $ 168.2 $ 18.8 11.2 % Scanner net revenues 11.1 12.4 (1.3 ) (10.5 )% Total net revenues $ 198.1 $ 180.6 $ 17.4 9.6 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 25 Table of Contents Clear Aligner Case Volume by Region Case volume data which represents Invisalign case shipments by region and product, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands). For the Three Months Ended, March 31, Region 2015 2014 Net Change % Change North American Invisalign 91.1 81.4 9.7 11.9 % International Invisalign 39.7 30.8 8.9 28.9 % Total Invisalign case volume 130.8 112.2 18.6 16.6 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Total net revenues increased by $17.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014 , primarily as a result of Invisalign case volume growth across all regions and most products. Clear Aligner In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , Clear Aligner North America net revenues increased by $10.9 million or 10.1% compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to Invisalign case volume growth of approximately $13.2 million across all channels and products. This increase was offset in part by lower average selling prices ("ASP") which decreased net revenues by approximately $2.3 million. The decrease in ASP was primarily a result of higher promotional discounts in the current period compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , Clear Aligner international net revenues increased by $ 6.1 million or 12.2% compared to the same period in 2014 primarily driven by Invisalign case volume growth of $14.5 million across all products. This was offset by lower ASP which decreased net revenues by approximately $8.4 million. The decrease in ASP was primarily a result of the unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rates due to the weakening of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar in the current period compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three months ended March 31, 2015, Invisalign non-case net revenues, consisting of training fees and ancillary product revenues, increased by $1.8 million or 17.1% compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to increased Vivera volume both in North America and International. Scanner and Services Scanner and Services net revenues decreased $1.4 million or 11.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in scanner revenues primarily due to lower scanner ASP as a result of the permanent price reduction as well as a slight decline in the number of scanners recognized. This decrease was offset in part by an increase in services revenues as a result of a larger scanner install base. 26 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 39.1 $ 35.2 $ 3.9 % of net segment revenues 20.9 % 20.9 % Gross profit $ 148.0 $ 133.1 $ 14.9 Gross margin % 79.1 % 79.1 % Scanner Cost of net revenues $ 7.9 $ 8.2 $ (0.3 ) % of net segment revenues 71.7 % 66.4 % Gross profit $ 3.1 $ 4.2 $ (1.1 ) Gross margin % 28.3 % 33.6 % Total cost of net revenues $ 47.0 $ 43.4 $ 3.6 % of net revenues 23.7 % 24.0 % Gross profit $ 151.1 $ 137.3 $ 13.8 Gross margin % 76.3 % 76.0 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes salaries for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets from Cadent, training costs and stock-based compensation. Clear Aligner Gross margin was flat for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 due to lower ASP which was offset by higher manufacturing costs from higher case volumes. Scanner Gross margin decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 due to lower ASP from permanent price reductions which was partially offset by higher absorption of manufacturing spend from an increase in production volumes. Selling, General and administrative (in millions): Effective for the first quarter of 2015, we are combining Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative together to report as Selling, General and Administrative. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 88.3 $ 82.1 $ 6.2 % of net revenues 44.6 % 45.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related costs including payroll, commissions and stock-based compensation for our sales force, marketing and administration in addition to media and advertising expenses, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, outside consulting services, legal expenses, depreciation and amortization expense, the medical device excise tax ("MDET") and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to higher compensation related costs of $8.9 million as a result of increased headcount, higher salaries from our annual focal review and higher stock-based compensation. In addition, consulting expense increased primarily due to our 27 Table of Contents enterprise resource planning "ERP" project along with litigation costs. We also increased media and public relations costs due to additional media coverage and campaigns. In the current quarter, the IRS approved our refund claim of $6.8 million MDET paid in 2013 related to our aligners, and we have recorded a receivable in Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets, reducing our expense. In addition, as previously noted, in March 2014, the IRS informed us that our aligners are not subject to the MDET, which we had been paying and expensing in Selling, General and Administrative expenses since January 1, 2013; however, our scanners are still subject to the MDET. As a result of these discussions, beginning in March 2014, we ceased expensing and paying the MDET for aligners; however, the three months ended March 31, 2014 included $1.2 million of 2014 MDET expense prior to us ceasing expensing in March 2014. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Research and development $ 13.9 $ 13.4 $ 0.5 % of net revenues 7.0 % 7.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs including stock-based compensation and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased compared to the same period in 2014 due to our continued investment in new products and consulting services; however, these costs were partially offset by lower compensation costs due to lower incentive bonuses during the current quarter. Interest and other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ (1.5 ) $ 0.6 $ (2.1 ) Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest and other income (expense), net, includes foreign currency translation gains and losses, interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances and other miscellaneous charges. Interest and other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2015 decreased compared to the same period in 2014 due to higher foreign exchange losses in the current year period primarily as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the Euro. Income tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Provision for income taxes $ 11.3 $ 10.0 $ 1.3 Effective tax rates 23.8 % 23.5 % Our provision for income taxes was $11.3 million and $10.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. This represents effective tax rates of 23.8% and 23.5% , respectively. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due to certain foreign earnings, primarily from Costa Rica, which are subject to a lower tax rate, state income tax expense, the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation charges and unrecognized tax benefits. We exercise significant judgment in regards to estimates of future market growth, forecasted earnings and projected taxable income in determining the provision for income taxes, and for purposes of assessing our ability to utilize any future benefit from deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2015 , we maintained a valuation allowance of $32.7 million against deferred tax assets primarily related to Israel and California operating loss carryforwards and Australia capital loss carryforwards. These net operating and capital loss carryforwards would result in an income tax benefit if we were to conclude it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. 28 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the change in our gross unrecognized tax benefits was not material. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $34.4 million as of March 31, 2015 , all of which would impact our effective tax rate if recognized. We have elected to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income taxes. The change in accrued interest and penalties during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was not material. We do not expect any significant changes to the amount of unrecognized tax benefit within the next twelve months. We file U.S. federal, U.S. state, and non-U.S. income tax returns. Our major tax jurisdictions are U.S. federal and the State of California. For U.S. federal and state tax returns, we are no longer subject to tax examinations for years before 2000. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to examination by foreign tax authorities for years before 2007. Subsequent to the end of the quarter ended March 31, 2015, we were notified by the California Franchise Tax Board that they will be examining our income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012. In June 2009, the Costa Rica Ministry of Foreign Trade, an agency of the Government of Costa Rica, granted a twelve year extension of certain income tax incentives, which were previously granted in 2002. The incentive tax rates will expire in various years beginning in 2017. Under these incentives, all of the income in Costa Rica during these twelve year incentive periods is subject to reduced rate of Costa Rica income tax. In order to receive the benefit of these incentives, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain certain minimum levels of fixed asset investment in Costa Rica. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse, and our income in Costa Rica would be subject to taxation at higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. The Costa Rica corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 30% for 2015 . As a result of these incentives, our income taxes were reduced by $8.2 million and $7.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a benefit to diluted net income per share of $0.10 and $0.09 in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales and the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. As of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we had the following cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 189,978 $ 199,871 Marketable securities, short-term 254,823 254,787 Marketable securities, long-term 168,171 147,892 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities $ 612,972 $ 602,550 Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 35,645 $ 17,993 Investing activities (36,661 ) (99,347 ) Financing activities (7,097 ) 21,061 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,780 ) 106 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (9,893 ) $ (60,187 ) As of March 31, 2015 , we had $613.0 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and debt instruments which include corporate bonds, U.S. dollar dominated foreign corporate bonds, commercial paper, municipal securities, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds, certificates of deposit, agency discount notes and asset-backed securities. As of March 31, 2015 , approximately $363.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The costs to repatriate our foreign earnings to the U.S. would likely be material; however, our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from foreign operations, and our current plans do not require us to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations as we generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to external funding under our current revolving line of credit. 29 Table of Contents On April 23, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we may purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock over the next three years, with $100.0 million of that amount authorized to be purchased over the next twelve months. Any purchases under this stock repurchase program may be made, from time-to-time, pursuant to open market purchases (including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans), privately-negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchases, block trades or derivative contracts or otherwise in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As part of this repurchase program, on April 28, 2014, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement ("ASR") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock which was completed on July 29, 2014. We received a total of 1.4 million shares under the ASR for an average purchase price per share of $51.46 . The final number of shares repurchased was based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, less an agreed upon discount. In addition, during 2014, we repurchased on the open market approximately 0.6 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $50.93 per share, including commissions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28.2 million. In the first quarter of 2015, we repurchased on the open market approximately 0.03 million shares of our common shares at an average price of $57.49 per share, including commissions, or an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.8 million. All repurchased shares were retired. In January 2015, our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of the next $100.0 million under the repurchase program to be repurchased which we anticipate completing within twelve months. As of March 31, 2015, we have $200.0 million remaining under the April 2014 stock repurchase program. On April 28, 2015, we announced that we entered into an ASR to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock. Under the terms of the ASR, we paid $70.0 million on April 29, 2015 and received an initial delivery of approximately 0.8 million shares based on current market prices. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, less an agreed upon discount. We expect to finance the ASR with current cash on hand and for it to be completed by July 29, 2015. On March 22, 2013, we entered into a credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank. The credit facility provides for a $50.0 million revolving line of credit, with a $10.0 million letter of credit sublimit, and has a maturity date on March 22, 2016. The credit facility also requires us to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance of $50.0 million and comply with specific financial conditions and performance requirements. The loan bears interest, at our option, at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the daily one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.75% or an adjusted LIBOR rate (based on one, three, six or twelve-month interest periods) plus a spread of 1.75% . As of March 31, 2015 , we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility and were in compliance with the conditions and performance requirements. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities combined with our positive cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , cash flows from operations of $35.6 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $36.2 million as well as the following: Significant non-cash activities: stock-based compensation of $11.6 million related to equity incentive compensation awards granted to our employees, and depreciation and amortization of $4.3 million related to our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, offset in part by excess tax benefits from our share-based compensation arrangements of $4.8 million . Significant changes in working capital: an increase of $12.2 million in accounts receivable which is a result of the increase in net revenues, and an increase of $10.5 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily due to the MDET receivable from the IRS, offset in part by 30 Table of Contents an increase of $6.0 million in deferred revenues corresponding to the increases in revenues. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $36.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily consisting of purchases of marketable securities of $113.5 million , and property, plant and equipment purchases of $15.6 million . These outflows were partially offset by $92.4 million of maturities and sales of our marketable securities. For the remainder of 2015, we expect to spend an additional $50.0 million to $60.0 million on capital expenditures for estimated total capital expenditures of $65.0 million to $75.0 million for 2015 primarily for additional manufacturing capacity and infrastructure including a project to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $7.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily resulting from $14.6 million related to payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units through share withholdings and $1.8 million for the repurchase of our common stock. These outflows were offset in part by $4.6 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock and $4.8 million from excess tax benefits from our share-based compensation arrangements. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2014 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond those available under our credit facility, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Indemnification Provisions In the normal course of business to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties: customers, vendors, lessors and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, services to be provided by us and intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. As of March 31, 2015 , we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 31 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, net revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, intangible assets, legal contingencies, impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our most significant estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies and related disclosures appear in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014: Revenue recognition; Stock-based compensation expense; Goodwill and finite-lived acquired intangible assets, Impairment of goodwill, finite-lived acquired intangible assets and long-lived assets, and Accounting for income taxes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.