ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Foley Trasimene Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsors refer to Trasimene Capital Management FT, LP, an affiliate of Trasimene Capital Management, LLC, and Bilcar FT, LP, an affiliate of Bilcar Limited Partnership. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for its Initial Public Offering filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on March 26, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We have not selected any specific Business Combination target and we have not, nor has anyone on our behalf, initiated any substantive discussions, directly or indirectly, with any Business Combination target. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the private placement of the Private Placement Warrants, the proceeds of the sale of our shares in connection with our initial Business Combination, shares issued to the owners of the target, debt issued to bank or other lenders or the owners of the target, or a combination of the foregoing. The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on May 26, 2020. On May 29, 2020, we completed our Initial Public Offering of 103,500,000 Units, which includes the full exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 13,500,000 units, sold to the public at the price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $1,035,000,000. Each Unit consists of one share of our Class A common stock and one-third of one redeemable warrant. Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of our Class A common stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment. Simultaneously with the closing of our Initial Public Offering, we completed the sale to the Sponsors of an aggregate of 15,133,333 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant, generating gross proceeds of approximately $22,700,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable for one share of our Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment. The proceeds from the Private Placement Warrants were added to the net proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. Following our Initial Public Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $1,035,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $57,949,954 in transaction costs, including $20,700,000 of underwriting fees, $36,225,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $1,024,954 of other offering costs. The issuance of additional shares in connection with an initial Business Combination, including the issuance of forward purchase securities: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in our Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of our Class A common stock on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of our Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of our Class A common stock if shares of preferred stock are issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; 15 may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial Business Combination. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception have been organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for our Initial Public Offering and identifying a target company for our initial Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as expenses as we conduct due diligence on prospective Business Combination candidates. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net income of $155,641, which consists of operating costs of $161,771 and a provision for income taxes of $72,413, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $394,825. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, we had a net income of $154,057, which consists of formation and operating costs of $277,175 and a provision for income taxes of $88,049, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $519,281. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, the Companys only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of Class B ordinary shares by our Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $440,676. Net income of $154,057 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $519,281 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which used $75,452 of cash from operating activities. As of September 30, 2020, we had cash and marketable securities of $1,035,519,281 held in the Trust Account. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes paid and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our initial Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay taxes. During the period ended September 30, 2020, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. 16 As of September 30, 2020, we had cash of $579,370 outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete our initial Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with our initial Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete our initial Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that our initial Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.50 per warrant at the option of the lender. We do not currently believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating our initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our initial Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. In March 2020, the World Health Organization classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve. The impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and related advisories and restrictions. These developments and the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on the financial markets and the overall economy are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If the financial markets and/or the overall economy continue to be impacted for an extended period, our ability to complete our initial Business Combination may be materially adversely affected due to significant governmental measures being implemented to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or treat its impact, including travel restrictions, the shutdown of businesses and quarantines, among others, which may limit our ability to have meetings with potential investors or affect the ability of a potential target company's personnel, vendors and service providers to negotiate and consummate our initial Business Combination in a timely manner. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2020. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsors a monthly fee up to $5,000 for office space and administrative support services. We began incurring these fees on May 26, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into on May 26, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans (and any Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans and upon conversion of the Founder Shares) are entitled to registration rights. The holders of these securities will be entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. However, the registration and stockholder rights agreement provides that the Company will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lockup period. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $36,225,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 17 We entered into forward purchase agreements with each of Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC. Pursuant to each agreement, Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC have each agreed to purchase shares of our Class A common stock in an aggregate share amount equal to 15,000,000 shares of the our Class A Common stock (or a total of 30,000,000 shares of the our Class A common stock), plus an aggregate of 5,000,000 redeemable warrants (or a total of 10,000,000 redeemable warrants) to purchase one share of the Companys Class A common stock at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $150,000,000 (or a total of $300,000,000), or $10.00 for one share of our Class A common stock and one-third of one warrant, in a private placement to occur concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. The warrants to be sold as part of the forward purchase agreements will be identical to the warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of unaudited condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheet. Net Loss per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for and Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock, by the weighted average number of shares of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods presented. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed financial statements.