Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business - Business Combination") and other acquisitions. Under GAAP, we review our long-lived assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable include reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We may experience unforeseen circumstances that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges could materially impact our financial statements. Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. A portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with or on behalf of national, state, regional and local governments and their agencies. In some cases, our services to public sector clients are provided through or are dependent upon relationships with third parties. For instance, we provide services for the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board through our contract with Accenture Federal Services. Government contracts are subject to heightened contractual risks compared to contracts with non-governmental commercial clients. For example, government contracts often contain high or unlimited liability for breaches. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to routine audits and investigations by government agencies. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities or contractual non-compliance (including improper billing), we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Also, the qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Further, the negative publicity that could arise from any such penalties, sanctions or findings could have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for 21 new contracts with both government and commercial clients. Moreover, government entities typically finance projects through appropriated funds. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (such as the new presidential administrations related initiatives) or other debt or funding constraints, could result in lower governmental sales and our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Any of the occurrences and conditions described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, these positions are frequently challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these challenges or examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. While we believe our tax estimates and any tax reserves are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Tax laws are being re-examined and evaluated globally. New laws and interpretations of the law are taken into account for financial statement purposes in the quarter or year that they become applicable. Tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. These proposals include changes to the existing framework to calculate income tax, as well as proposals to change or impose new types of non-income taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. For example, several countries in the European Union have proposed or enacted taxes applicable to digital services, which includes business activities on social media platforms and online marketplaces, and may apply to our business. Many questions remain about the enactment, form and application of these digital services taxes. The interpretation and implementation of the various digital services taxes (especially if there is inconsistency in the application of these taxes across tax jurisdictions) could have a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of 38 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles, including its Pillar Two framework, which imposes a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%. Certain countries in which we operate have enacted legislation to adopt the Pillar Two framework, and several other countries are also considering changes to their tax laws to implement this framework. While we do not expect the impact of Pillar Two to be material to our business, when and how this framework is adopted or enacted by the various countries in which we do business could increase tax complexity and uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. Moreover, if the U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Ownership of our Securities The Sponsor Investors have significant influence over the Company and their interests may conflict with the Companys or its stockholders in the future. Under the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation ("Charter") and the Investor Rights Agreement (the Investor Rights Agreement) that the Company entered into with Trasimene Capital FT, LP, Bilcar FT, LP, and Cannae Holdings, LLC (the Sponsor Investors) and certain other investors as part of the Business Combination, as amended on February 2, 2023, the Company agreed to nominate to its Board of Directors certain individuals designated by the Sponsor Investors for so long as such investors retain a certain ownership interest in the Company and/or its wholly owned subsidiary Alight Holding Company, LLC ("Alight Holdings"). The Sponsor Investors continue to have the right to designate, and have designated three of the eleven directors on our Board of Directors, including the Chairman. As a result, the Sponsor Investors may be considered to have significant influence with respect to the Companys management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of the Companys officers. For so long as such 22 investors continue to own a significant percentage of the Class A Common Stock, such investors may be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your Class A Common Stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Charter and Bylaws, and applicable law and regulations, as well as the Investor Rights Agreement, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Charter, our amended and restated by-laws ("Bylaws") and the Investor Rights Agreement contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, consolidation, acquisition, or other change in control transaction that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which the Companys stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their Class A Common Stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove Company management, such as authorization to issue blank check preferred stock without stockholder approval, limitations on actions taken by stockholders, advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals, a classified board of directors, prohibitions on certain business combinations, the ability of the Board to fill certain director vacancies and limitations on the removal of directors by stockholders. Additionally, one of our subsidiaries, Alight Financial Solutions, LLC (AFS), is a member in good standing with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and is subject to change in ownership or control regulations as a result. FINRAs Rule 1017 requires that any member of FINRA file an application for approval of any change in ownership that would result in one person or entity directly or indirectly owning or controlling 25% or more of member firms equity capital. A substantially complete application must be filed at least 30 days prior to effecting a change. The approval process under Rule 1017 can take six months or more to complete. The required FINRA process under Rule 1017, including the required 30-day notice period before effecting a change in ownership, could hinder or delay a third party in any effort to acquire us or a substantial position in our Class A Common Stock following the business combination, where such acquisition would result in the applicable person or persons, directly or indirectly, owning or controlling 25% or more of AFS. A denial of FINRA approval could prevent or delay any transaction resulting from a change of control or AFS withdrawing its broker-dealer registration, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or future prospects. A denial of any other application AFS has made under Rule 1017 could also have a material adverse effect on us. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Companys shares. They could also deter potential acquirers of the Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that stockholders could receive a premium for their shares in an acquisition. See Description of Securities included as Exhibit 4.1 to this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of these provisions. If securities or industry analysts downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A Common Stock, the price of our Class A Common Stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A Common Stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our Class A Common Stock may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock or trading volume to decline and our Class A Common Stock to be less liquid. The market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock has been, and may continue to be volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our Class A Common Stock has fluctuated significantly in response to numerous factors and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the per share trading price of our Class A Common Stock fluctuated from a low of $6.52 to a high of $10.32.This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results may fail to match our past performance and could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to shareholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, the performance of direct and indirect competitors, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or 23 enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals. In addition, the market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock could be subject to additional volatility or decrease significantly, as a result of speculation in the press or the investment community about our industry or our company, including, as a result of short sellers who publish, or arrange for the publication of, opinions or characterizations of our business prospects or similar matters calculated to create negative market momentum in order to profit from a decline in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Stock markets and the price of our Class A Common Stock have, and may in the future, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a companys securities, including as a result of reports published by short sellers, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, as well as responding to reports published by short sellers or other speculation in the press or investment community, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. The Companys decision to maintain, reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our stockholders or repurchasing our Class A Common Stock could cause the market price for our Class A Common Stock to decline. Our Board of Directors recently adopted a dividend program, pursuant to which we intend to pay a cash dividend on our Class A Common Stock on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of any dividend is subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and our dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time. Separately, as of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $81 million remaining of authorization under our existing share repurchase program. The share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to purchase any particular number of shares and there is no guarantee as to any number of shares being repurchased by the Company. Because we are a holding company with no material assets other than its direct and indirect ownership of equity interests in Alight Holdings, the Company has no independent means of generating revenue or cash flow, and our ability to pay cash dividends or repurchase shares is dependent on the financial results and cash flows of Alight Holdings and its subsidiaries and the distributions that we receive from Alight Holdings. Any decisions made regarding our quarterly dividend payments or our repurchase activities could have a negative effect on our reputation and could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline significantly. In addition, the payment of dividends and repurchases of shares are uses of cash, which may reduce the availability of cash for other business purposes, including investments, acquisitions, or repayment of indebtedness. Risks Related to our Organizational Structure The Company is a holding company, and our only material asset is our direct and indirect interests in Alight Holdings, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Alight Holdings to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses, including payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The Company is a holding company with no material assets other than its direct and indirect ownership of equity interests in Alight Holdings, of which the Company serves as the managing member. As a result, the Company has no independent means of generating revenue or cash flow and the Company is dependent on the financial results and cash flows of Alight Holdings and its subsidiaries and the distributions that we receive from Alight Holdings in order to pay taxes, make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, pay dividends (including any dividends or amounts payable in connection with the conversion or exchange of Class B Common Stock and Class B Units) and pay other costs and expenses of the Company. While we intend to cause Alight Holdings to continue to make distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay all applicable taxes, to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and to pay our corporate and other overhead expenses, deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Alight Holdings for any reason could limit or impair Alight Holdings ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that the Company needs funds and Alight Holdings is restricted from making such distributions under applicable laws or regulations or under the terms of any financing arrangements, or Alight Holdings is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect the Companys liquidity and financial condition. Such restrictions include Alight Holdings financing facilities to which Alight Holdings subsidiaries are borrowers or guarantors. Alight Holdings distributions, as a result of such financing facilities, are limited based on the achievement of certain financial ratios and fixed dollar baskets, availability under which will vary depending on the Companys financial performance. We currently anticipate that Alight Holdings will have sufficient capacity to make the dividends and other distributions described above. Distributions may also be restricted pursuant to the Alight Holdings Operating Agreement and applicable Delaware law. Under the Alight Holdings Operating Agreement, the Company (as managing member) is prohibited from making distributions if they would violate Section 18-607 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act ("DLLCA") or another applicable law. Under the DLLCA, limited liability companies are generally 24 restricted from making distributions to their members to the extent that, after giving effect to any such distribution, the companys liabilities (subject to certain limited exclusions) exceed the fair value of the companys assets. Under the terms of the Alight Holdings Operating Agreement, Alight Holdings is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of units of Alight Holdings ("Alight Holdings Units") (including us) at an assumed tax rate, subject to there being available cash. The amount of these tax distributions may in certain periods exceed our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, which may result significant excess cash accumulation at the Company. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, will determine from time to time how to use any cash that accumulates at the Company as a result, which may include, among other potential uses, repurchases of our Class A Common Stock or the payment of dividends thereon. However, we will have no obligation to distribute such cash (or other available cash other than as a result of any declared dividend) to our stockholders. To the extent that the Company does not use any such accumulated cash, following the exchange or redemption of Class A Units for Class A Common Stock, Continuing Tempo Unitholders may benefit from value attributable to such cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A Common Stock, notwithstanding that such Continuing Tempo Unitholders may previously have participated or received distributions as holders of Alight Holdings Units that resulted in the excess cash balances at the Company. The Company is required to pay certain parties for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions that we may claim as a result of the Companys direct and indirect allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination, the Companys increase in its allocable share of existing tax basis and anticipated tax basis adjustments we receive in connection with sales or exchanges of Alight Holdings Units after the Business Combination. In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into a tax receivable agreement (the "Tax Receivable Agreement" or the "TRA") with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners (the "TRA Parties") that provides for the payment by the Company to such TRA Parties of 85% of the benefits, if any, that the Company is deemed to realize (calculated using certain assumptions) as a result of (i) the Companys direct and indirect allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination, (ii) increases in the Companys allocable share of existing tax basis and tax basis adjustments that will increase the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Alight Holdings as a result of the Business Combination and as a result of sales or exchanges of Alight Holdings Units for shares of Class A Common Stock after the Business Combination and (iii) certain other tax benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. These increases in existing tax basis and tax basis adjustments generated over time may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and, therefore, may reduce the amount of tax that the Company would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") may challenge all or part of the validity of that tax basis, and a court could sustain such a challenge. Actual tax benefits realized by the Company may differ from tax benefits calculated under the Tax Receivable Agreement as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. The payment obligation under the Tax Receivable Agreement is an obligation of the Company and not of Alight Holdings. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges of Alight Holdings Units for shares of our Class A Common Stock, the applicable tax rate, the price of shares of our Class A Common Stock at the time of exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that as a result of the size of the transfers and increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Alight Holdings and our possible utilization of tax attributes, including existing tax basis acquired at the time of the Business Combination, the payments that the Company may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditioned on the exchanging holders of Alight Holdings Units or other TRA Parties continuing to hold ownership interests in us. To the extent payments are due to the TRA Parties under the Tax Receivable Agreement, the payments are generally required to be made within ten business days after the tax benefit schedule (which sets forth the Companys realized tax benefits covered by the Tax Receivable Agreement for the relevant taxable year) is finalized. The Company is required to deliver such a tax benefit schedule to the TRA Parties representative, for its review, within ninety calendar days after the due date (including extensions) of the Companys federal corporate income tax return for the relevant taxable year. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits the Company realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The Companys payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be accelerated in the event of certain changes of control or its election to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early. The accelerated payments will relate to all relevant tax attributes then allocable to the Company in the case of an acceleration upon a change of control and to all relevant tax attributes allocable or that would be allocable to the Company (in the case of an election by the 25 Company to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early, assuming all Alight Holdings Units were then exchanged). The accelerated payments required in such circumstances will be calculated by reference to the present value, at a specified discount rate, of all future payments that holders of Alight Holdings Units or other recipients would have been entitled to receive under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and such accelerated payments and any other future payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will utilize certain valuation assumptions, including that the Company will have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement and sufficient taxable income to fully utilize any remaining net operating losses subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement on a straight line basis over the shorter of the statutory expiration period for such net operating losses or the five-year period after the early termination or change of control. In addition, recipients of payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if such tax basis and the Companys utilization of certain tax attributes is successfully challenged by the IRS (although any such detriment would be taken into account in future payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement). The Companys ability to achieve benefits from any existing tax basis, tax basis adjustments or other tax attributes, and the payments to be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. As a result, even in the absence of a change of control or an election to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement could be in excess of 85% of the Companys actual cash tax benefits. Accordingly, it is possible that the actual cash tax benefits realized by the Company may be significantly less than the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments or that payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the actual cash tax benefits that the Company realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and/or distributions to the Company by Alight Holdings are not sufficient to permit the Company to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement after it has paid taxes and other expenses. Based upon certain assumptions, we estimate that if the Company were to exercise its termination right as of December 31, 2024, the aggregate amount of these termination payments would be significantly in excess of the Tax Receivable Agreement liability recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements within this Annual Report. We may need to incur additional indebtedness to finance payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, and these obligations could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. For more information regarding our liability under the Tax Receivable Agreement, refer to Note 15 "Tax Receivable Agreement" within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report. The acceleration of payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the case of certain changes of control may impair our ability to consummate change of control transactions or negatively impact the value of our Class A Common Stock. In the case of a Change of Control under the Tax Receivable Agreement (which is defined to include, among other things, a 50% change in control of the Company, the approval of a complete plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or the disposition of all or substantially all of the Companys direct or indirect assets), payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be accelerated and may significantly exceed the actual benefits the Company realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. We expect that the payments that we may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement (the calculation of which is described in the immediately preceding risk factor) in the event of a change of control will be substantial. As a result, our accelerated payment obligations and/or the assumptions adopted under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the case of a change of control may impair our ability to consummate change of control transactions or negatively impact the value received by owners of our Class A Common Stock in a change of control transaction. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our term loan facility and revolving credit facility, or any other variable rate debt offerings that we may engage in, could be higher or lower than current levels. Although we use derivative financial instruments to some extent to manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risks, we do not attempt to manage our entire exposure. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $2.0 billion of outstanding debt at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. 26 Changes in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings and outlooks for the companies that they rate, including us. Credit rating agencies also evaluate our industry as a whole and may qualify or change their credit ratings for us based on their overall view of our industry, global economic conditions or other geopolitical factors. Failure to maintain credit ratings that provide access to debt markets at reasonable interest rates could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing, which we may need to operate our business, and adversely impact our business, including our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Alight recognizes the importance of developing, implementing and maintaining robust cybersecurity measures designed to safeguard our information systems and protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data in our care. The Company utilizes a cross-functional group of colleagues representing various stakeholders including technology, security, finance, internal audit, legal and others to identify and manage risks across the organization, including risks relating to cybersecurity. The Companys cybersecurity program is focused on continuous improvement and takes a layered approach to cybersecurity to include prevention, detection, and response-based controls. Our preventative measures include network-based controls, malware defenses, email security, encryption for data in motion and at rest, continuous vulnerability testing and mitigation, and multi-factor authentication. Our detection and response measures include comprehensive logging and continuous monitoring utilizing both in-house and Managed Security Services, forensics capability, and an enterprise crisis management function. Alight employees are assigned data privacy and security training upon on-boarding and annually thereafter. The training is designed in collaboration with a third-party service provider and is designed to raise awareness of security practices and to educate employees on how to protect information and infrastructure. To support the overall cybersecurity program, Alight maintains an incident management team that tracks and logs privacy and security incidents across Alight, our vendors, and partners to better manage remediation and resolution of any such incidents. Significant incidents are promptly reviewed by a cross-functional working group to determine whether further escalation is appropriate. Any incident assessed as potentially being or potentially becoming material is escalated for further review, and then reported to designated members of our executive leadership team where needed. We consult with outside counsel and forensics firms as appropriate, including on materiality analysis and disclosure matters, and members of our executive leadership team make the final materiality determinations and, if appropriate, disclosure to law enforcement, regulators or clients. Our executive leadership team apprises Alights Board of Directors and our independent public accounting firm of significant matters and any relevant developments. Our cybersecurity frameworks are informed by third-party standards relevant to our industry such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Center for Internet Security and the International Standards Organization. We regularly test our cybersecurity defenses through both automated and manual testing to identify, prioritize and remediate risk. Alight also engages third parties to examine and report on the effectiveness of our controls relating to our systems, including those used in the cybersecurity frameworks. Our Chief Technology Officer, Chief Information & Security Officer and Chief Legal Officer provide periodic reports on our cybersecurity and risk management efforts, including with respect to information security practices, to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the Audit Committee), as well as to other members of our executive leadership team, as appropriate. These reports include updates on the Companys cyber risks and threats, the status of projects to strengthen our information security systems, assessments of the information security program, and the emerging threat landscape. Where appropriate, the Audit Committee then periodically reports to the full Board of Directors regarding the Companys assessment of potential risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such risks, which includes the Companys cybersecurity program designed to prevent, detect, and rapidly respond to any potential incident. In addition to our scheduled meetings, the Audit Committee and executive leadership team maintain an ongoing dialogue regarding emerging or potential cybersecurity risks. Together, they receive updates on significant developments in cybersecurity to facilitate proactive and responsive oversight. The Audit Committee is apprised of strategic decisions related to cybersecurity, offering guidance and approval for major initiatives. This involvement helps drive integration of cybersecurity considerations into our Companys broader strategic objectives. 27 Additionally, because Alight partners with a number of third parties in the ordinary course of business, our management team has developed and implemented processes to oversee and manage significant risks associated with use of third-party service providers. We conduct thorough security assessments of critical third-party providers before engagement and periodically monitor vendor compliance with our security standards. The monitoring includes periodic assessments by our vendor management team and use of an independent vendor risk rating service that alerts Alight when there is a change in a service providers security posture. This approach is designed to mitigate risks related to data breaches or other security incidents originating from third parties. Our Chief Information & Security Officer has over 30 years of experience in the cybersecurity industry, including, prior to joining Alight in 2021, as the SVP, Chief Information Security Officer at a multinational health insurance and health services company in the Fortune 100, and as head of cybersecurity for a U.S.-based financial services company in the Fortune 500, as well as for a federal banking institution and for a professional services company in the Fortune 500 specializing in information technology services. Our Chief Information & Security Officer reports directly to the Chief Technology Officer and meets regularly with other members of senior management and the Audit Committee. Our program is regularly evaluated by internal stakeholders and external parties with the results of those reviews reported to the executive leadership team and the Audit Committee, as appropriate. We also actively engage with key vendors, industry participants, and intelligence and law enforcement communities as part of our continuing efforts to evaluate and enhance the effectiveness of our information security policies and procedures. Our results of operations and financial condition have not been materially affected by risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of previously identified cybersecurity incidents, but we cannot provide assurance that they will not be materially affected in the future by such risks or any future incidents. To further preemptively mitigate the potential financial impact of cybersecurity incidents, we maintain liability insurance that includes cyber coverage. However, our insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our insurance may not cover any or all incidents that occur or claims made against us, and addressing an incident or defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention from our business and operations. For more information on our cybersecurity related risks, see the Risk Factors in Item 1A. of this Annual Report. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters is located in leased office space in downtown Chicago, Illinois. We currently use approximately 16,000 square feet of office space in our headquarters. The lease expires on January 31, 2031. We have additional offices in locations throughout the world, including Illinois, Texas, Florida, Georgia, Puerto Rico, Canada, Spain, India, and Poland. All of our offices are located in leased premises. We believe that the facilities we currently occupy are adequate for the purposes for which they are being used and are well maintained. In general, no difficulty is anticipated in negotiating renewals as leases expire or in finding other satisfactory space if the premises become unavailable. See Note 19 Lease Obligations within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report for further information. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are a party to a variety of legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of our business. While the results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect, individually or in the aggregate, on our results of operations or financial condition. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information for Common Stock and Dividend Policy Our Class A Common Stock is currently traded on the NYSE under the symbol ALIT. Market price information regarding our Class B-1 Common Stock, Class B-2 Common Stock and Class V Common Stock is not provided because there is no public market for such classes. In 2024, our Board of Directors approved a new quarterly dividend program. The Company intends to continue paying regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, whose decision will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. On November 12, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $0.04 per share of Class A Common Stock, payable on December 16, 2024 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 2, 2024. The dividend resulted in aggregate payments of approximately $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2024. On February 13, 2025, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend in the amount of $0.04 per share of Class A Common Stock on March 17, 2025, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 3, 2025. Holders of Record Set forth below are the numbers of holders of record for each of our classes of Common Stock as of February 17, 2025. Class Number of Holders of Record Class A Common Stock 12 Class B-1 Common Stock 89 Class B-2 Common Stock 89 Class V Common Stock 1 Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information regarding purchases of our Class A Common Stock that were made by us during the three months ended December 31, 2024. Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share (1) Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (in millions) (2) Beginning repurchase authority $ 93 October 1, 2024 through October 31, 2024 $ 93 November 1, 2024 through November 30, 2024 93 December 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024 1,629,811 7.36 1,629,811 81 Balance as of December 31, 2024 1,629,811 $ 7.36 1,629,811 $ 81 (1)Average price paid per share for open market purchases includes broker commissions. (2)On August 1, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program (the "Program"), under which the Company may repurchase issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock from time to time, depending on market conditions and alternate uses of capital. The program may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The Program has no expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Program does not obligate the 29 Company to purchase any particular number of shares and there is no guarantee as to any number of shares being repurchased by the Company. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans Information about our equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report. Performance The following graph compares the total shareholder return from July 2, 2021, the date on which our Class A Common Stock commenced trading on the NYSE, through December 31, 2024 of (i) our Class A Common Stock, (ii) the Standard and Poor's 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and (iii) the Russell 2000 Index (the "Russell 2000"). The S&P 500 was selected because it serves as a broad market index. The Russell 2000 was selected because we do not believe we can reasonably identify an industry index or specific peer group that would offer a meaningful comparison. The Russell 2000 measures the performance of the small market capitalization segment of U.S. equity instruments. The stock performance graph and table assume an initial investment of $100 on July 2, 2021, and that all dividends of Alight, the S&P 500 and the Russell 2000, were reinvested. Companies in the Russell 2000 are weighted by market capitalization. The performance graph and table are not intended to be indicative of future performance. The performance graph and table shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. Item 6. Reserved. 30 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion includes forward-looking statements. See Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A. of this Annual Report for a list of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in those statements. This discussion includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in the rules of the SEC. We present such non-GAAP financial measures as we believe such information is of interest to the investment community because it provides additional meaningful methods of evaluating certain aspects of the Companys operating performance from period to period on a basis that may not be otherwise apparent under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), and these provide a measure against which our businesses may be assessed in the future. Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. These financial measures should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2024. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further discussion. BUSINESS Overview Alight is a technology-enabled services company delivering human capital management solutions to many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations. This includes the implementation and administration of employee benefits (e.g. health, wealth and leaves benefits) solutions. Alights numerous solutions and services are utilized year-round by employees and their family members in support of their overall health, wealth and wellbeing goals. Participants can access their solutions digitally, including through a mobile application on Alight Worklife, our intuitive, cloud-based employee engagement platform. Through Alight Worklife, the Company believes it is defining the future of employee benefits by providing an enterprise level, integrated offering designed to drive better outcomes for organizations and individuals. We aim to be the pre-eminent employee experience partner by providing personalized experiences that help employees make the best decisions for themselves and their families about their health, wealth and wellbeing. At the same time, we help employers tackle their biggest people and business challenges by helping them understand prevalence, trends and risks to generate better outcomes for the future, such as improved employee productivity and retention, while also realizing a return on their people investment. Our data, analytics and AI allow us to deliver actionable insights that drive measurable outcomes, such as healthcare claims savings, for companies and their people. Business Combination On July 2, 2021 (the Closing Date), Alight Holding Company, LLC (the "Predecessor" or "Alight Holdings") completed a business combination (the "Business Combination") with a special purpose acquisition company. On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, the special purpose acquisition company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alight, Inc. (Alight, the Company, we us our or the Successor). As of December 31, 2024, Alight owned approximately 99% of the economic interest in the Predecessor, had 100% of the voting power and controlled the management of the Predecessor. The non-voting ownership percentage held by noncontrolling interest was less than 1% as of December 31, 2024. Divestiture On July 12, 2024, the Company, completed the previously announced sale (the Transaction) of the Divested Business entities affiliated with H.I.G. Capital, L.L.C. (collectively, Buyer), pursuant to the terms of the Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement), dated as of March 20, 2024. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Buyer agreed to acquire the Divested Business for total consideration of up to $1.2 billion, in the form of (1) $1.0 billion in cash (the Closing Cash Consideration) payable at the closing of the transactions (the Closing) contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, (2) a note with an aggregate principal amount of $50 million, and an initial fair value of $35 million as of July 12, 2024 issued at Closing (the Seller Note) by an indirect parent of Buyer (the Note Issuer) and (3) contingent upon the financial performance of the Divested Business for the 2025 fiscal year, a note with an aggregate principal amount of up to $150 million (the Additional Seller Note) and an initial fair value of $43 million as of July 12, 2024 to be issued by the Note Issuer. The Seller Note has a stated interest rate of 8.0%. The Company incurred higher operating expenses in 2024 as a result of professional fees paid in conjunction with the Transaction. 31 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Alight. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on February 29, 2024, noting the results for the year ended December 31, 2023 and year ended December 31, 2022 have since been recast in this Form 10-K. The following table sets forth our historical results of operations for the periods indicated below: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 2022 Revenue $ 2,332 $ 2,386 $ 2,207 Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 1,442 1,504 1,472 Depreciation and amortization 96 72 49 Gross Profit 794 810 686 Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative 585 590 479 Depreciation and intangible amortization 299 301 301 Total Operating expenses 884 891 780 Operating Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (90) (81) (94) Other (Income) Expense (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments (57) 10 (38) (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 34 118 (41) Interest expense 103 131 121 Other (income) expense, net (22) (3) (12) Total Other (income) expense, net 58 256 30 Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Taxes (148) (337) (124) Income tax expense (benefit) (8) (20) 16 Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (140) (317) (140) Net Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax (19) (45) 68 Net Income (Loss) (159) (362) (72) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) (17) (10) Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ (157) $ (345) $ (62) REVIEW OF RESULTS Key Components of Our Continuing Operations Revenue Our clients demand for our services ultimately drives our revenues. We generate primarily all of our revenue, which is highly recurring, from fees for services provided from contracts across all solutions, which is primarily based on a contracted fee charged per participant per period (e.g., monthly or annually, as applicable). Our contracts typically have three to five-year terms for ongoing services with mutual renewal options. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized over time when control of the promised services is transferred, and the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of our services. Payment terms are consistent with industry practice. We calculate growth rates for each of our solutions in relation to recurring revenues and revenues from project work. One of the components of our growth in recurring revenues is the increase in net commercial activity which reflects items such as client wins and losses (Net Commercial Activity). We define client wins as sales to new clients and sales of new solutions to existing clients. We define client losses as instances where clients do not renew or terminate their arrangements in relation to individual 32 solutions or all of the solutions that we provide. We measure revenue growth as it relates to the cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. We use annual revenue retention rates as an important measure to manage our business. We calculate annual revenue retention on a gross basis by identifying the clients from whom we generated revenue in the prior year and determining what percentage of that revenue is generated from those same clients for the same solutions in the subsequent year. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization includes compensation-related and vendor costs directly attributable to client-related services and costs related to application development and client-related infrastructure. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses include the depreciation and amortization related to our hardware, software and application development. Depreciation and amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware, software and application development. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation-related costs for administrative and management employees, system and facilities expenses, and costs for external professional and consulting services. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses consist of charges relating to the depreciation of the property and equipment used in our business and the amortization of acquired customer-related and contract based intangible assets and technology related intangible assets. Depreciation and intangible amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware and other equipment as well as amortization expense associated with future acquisitions. (Gain) Loss from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Gain) loss from change in fair value of financial instruments includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period for the Seller Earnouts contingent consideration and the Additional Seller Note. (Gain) Loss from Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement (Gain) loss from change in fair value of Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to our outstanding debt. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net includes non-operating expenses and income, including realized (gains) and losses from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions, and Transition Services Agreement (the "TSA") income for providing various corporate services to the Divested Business. Results of Continuing Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2024 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Revenue Revenues were $2,332 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to $2,386 million for the prior year period. The decrease of $54 million, or 2.3%, was driven by lower volumes, Net Commercial Activity, project revenue and the wind-down of our Hosted business operations. We experienced short term impacts in the first half of 2024 when compared to the prior year period as a result of large deal go-live timing and softness in BPaaS bookings in the first half of 2023. We also measure revenue growth as it relates to our cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and our next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $499 million, which represented growth of 15.0% compared to the prior year period. 33 Recurring revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased by $32 million, or 1.5%, from $2,167 million in the prior year period to $2,135 million and were primarily driven by lower volumes and Net Commercial Activity. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, decreased $62 million, or 4.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2024as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by lower revenues and, lower compensation and benefits expenses, primarily stock-based compensation and savings realized in conjunction with productivity initiatives. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $24 million, or 33.3%, as compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by capitalized software. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $5 million, or 0.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was driven by lower compensation expenses primarily related to share-based awards and lower costs incurred from our restructuring program, partially offset by higher professional fees related to the sale and separation of our Payroll and Professional Services businesses. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses decreased by $2 million, or 0.7%, and was consistent compared to the prior year period. Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments There was a $57 million gain related to the change in the fair value of financial instruments for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to a loss of $10 million for the prior year period. We are required to remeasure the financial instruments at the end of each reporting period and reflect a gain or loss for the change in fair value of the financial instruments in the period the change occurred. Changes in the fair value are primarily due to changes in the underlying assumptions of each respective instrument, including changes in the risk-free interest rate, volatility, cost of debt, forecasts, and the closing stock price for the period and are primarily related to the Seller Earnout and Additional Seller Note. See Note 14 "Financial Instruments" within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement The change in the fair value of the TRA resulted in a loss of $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, a decrease of $84 million compared to a loss of $118 million for the prior year period. The change in fair value was due to the conversion of non-controlling interests during the year ended December 31, 2024, changes in the Company's assumptions related to the timing of the utilization of tax attributes during the term of the TRA, changes in the discount rate and the passage of time. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to the partial repayment of debt during the year, the opportunistic repricing of our 2028 term loan and higher interest income, partially offset by the Company's hedges. See Note 8 Debt for additional information. Other (Income) Expense, net Under the terms of the TSA as described in Note 4 "Discontinued Operations", the Company is providing technology infrastructure, risk and security, and various other corporate services to the Divested Business subsequent to the close. We recorded $19 million for services performed under the TSA for the year ended December 31, 2024 in Other (income) expense, net, and the corresponding expenses were recognized in Cost of services and Selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (loss). 34 Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Taxes Loss from continuing operations before taxes was $148 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to loss from continuing operations before taxes of $337 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in loss was primarily attributable to lower interest expense as a result of the partial debt repayment and other income recorded in conjunction with the TSA and the non-operating fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and the TRA. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit was $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to an income tax benefit of $20 million for the prior year period. The effective tax rate of 5% for the year ended December 31, 2024 was lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to the Companys non-deductible expenses, tax credits, and changes in valuation allowance. The effective tax rate of 6% for the year ended December 31, 2023 was lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to the Companys non-deductible expenses, tax credits, and changes in valuation allowance. See Note 7 Income Taxes within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Reportfor additional information. Results of Continuing Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Revenue Revenues were $2,386 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to $2,207 million for the prior year period. The increase of $179 million reflects growth of 8.1%. We also measure revenue growth as it relates to our cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and our next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $434 million, which represented growth of 44.7% compared to the prior year period. Recurring revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by $164 million, or 8.2%, from $2,003 million in the prior year period to $2,167 million and is a result of higher revenues related to Net Commercial Activity and our 2022 acquisition, partially offset by lower volumes. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $32 million, or 2.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by growth in revenues, including investments in key resources and as a result of our 2022 acquisition, partially offset by productivity initiatives. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $111 million, or 23.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the inclusion of expenses from our 2022 acquisition and costs incurred from our previously announced restructuring program, partially offset by lower compensation expenses related to share-based awards. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses remained consistent when comparing the year ended December 31, 2023 to the prior year period. Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments There was a loss of $10 million related to the change in the fair value of financial instruments for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to a gain of $38 million for the prior year period. We are required to remeasure the financial instruments at the end of each reporting period and reflect a gain or loss for the change in fair value of the financial instruments in the period the change occurred. Changes in the fair value are due to changes in the underlying assumptions, including changes in the risk-free interest rate, volatility, forecasts, and the closing stock price for the period. See Note 14 "Financial Instruments" for additional information. Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement The change in the fair value of the TRA resulted in a loss of $118 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to a gain of $41 million for the prior year period. This revaluation loss was due to changes in the discount rate, 35 passage of time, and changes in the expected timing of the utilization of tax attributes during the term of the TRA, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense on our Term Loan due to movement in market interest rates. See Note 8 Debt within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Taxes Loss from continuing operations before taxes was $337 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to loss from continuing operations before taxes of $124 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in loss from continuing operations before taxes was primarily due to non-operating fair value remeasurements associated with financial instruments and the TRA. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit was $20 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to an income tax expense of $16 million for the prior year period. The effective tax rate of 6% for the year ended December 31, 2023 was lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to the Companys non-deductible expenses, tax credits, and changes in valuation allowance. The effective tax rate of 13% for the year ended December 31, 2022 was lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to the Companys non-deductible expenses, tax credits, and changes in valuation allowance. See Note 7 Income Taxes within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is used to enhance our management and stakeholders understanding of certain aspects of our financial performance. This discussion is not meant to be considered in isolation, superior to, or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management also uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to manage and evaluate the business, make planning decisions, allocate resources and as performance measures for Company-wide bonus plans. These key financial measures provide an additional view of our operational performance over the long-term and provide useful information that we use in order to maintain and grow our business. The measures referred to as adjusted, have limitations as analytical tools, and such measures should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of the limitations are: Measure does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; Measure does not reflect our interest expense or the cash requirements to service interest or principal payments on our indebtedness; Measure does not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes, including payments related to the Tax Receivable Agreement; Measure does not reflect the impact on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated or amortized will often need to be replaced in the future, and the adjusted measure does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and Other companies may calculate adjusted measures differently, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations, which is defined as net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Alight, Inc., adjusted for intangible amortization and the impact of certain non-cash items that we 36 do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used solely for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations divided by the adjusted weighted-average number of shares of common stock, diluted. The adjusted weighted shares calculation assumes the full exchange of the non-controlling interest units and the full amount of non-vested time-based restricted units that were determined to be antidilutive and therefore excluded from the U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations, including the adjusted weighted-average number of shares, is used by us and our investors to evaluate our core operating performance and to benchmark our operating performance against our competitors. A reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations and the computation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations is as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2024 2023 2022 Numerator: Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations Attributable to Alight, Inc. (1) $ (138) $ (300) $ (130) Conversion of noncontrolling interest (2) (17) (10) Intangible amortization 280 281 278 Share-based compensation 76 139 164 Transaction and integration expenses (2) 82 29 19 Restructuring 63 73 46 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments (57) 10 (38) (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 34 118 (41) Other 8 1 (1) Tax effect of adjustments (3) (85) (100) (109) Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations $ 261 $ 234 $ 178 Denominator: Weighted average shares outstanding - basic 539,861,208 489,461,259 458,558,192 Dilutive effect of the exchange of noncontrolling interest units 510,237 Dilutive effect of RSUs Weighted average shares outstanding - diluted 540,371,445 489,461,259 458,558,192 Exchange of noncontrolling interest units(4) 518,412 44,569,341 74,665,373 Impact of unvested RSUs(5) 7,325,106 10,080,390 7,624,817 Adjusted shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding - diluted(6)(7) 548,214,963 544,110,990 540,848,382 Basic (Net Loss) Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ (0.25) $ (0.61) $ (0.28) Diluted (Net Loss) Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ (0.25) $ (0.61) $ (0.28) Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ 0.48 $ 0.43 $ 0.33 __________________________________________________________ (1)Excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Comparable periods have been recast to exclude these impacts. (2)Transaction and integration expenses primarily relate to acquisitions and divestiture activities. (3)Income tax effects have been calculated based on statutory tax rates for both U.S. and foreign jurisdictions based on the Company's mix of income and adjusted for significant changes in fair value measurement. (4)Assumes the full exchange of the units held by noncontrolling interests for shares of Class A Common Stock of Alight, Inc. pursuant to the exchange agreement. (5)Includes non-vested time-based restricted stock units that were determined to be antidilutive for U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share purposes. 37 (6)Excludes two tranches of contingently issuable seller earnout shares: (i) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the Company's Class A Common Stock's volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") is >$12.50 for any 20 trading days within a consecutive period of 30 trading days; (ii) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the Company's Class A Common Stock VWAP is >$15.00 for any 20 trading days within a consecutive period of 30 trading days. Both tranches have a seven-year duration. (7)Excludes approximately 10.9 million and 27.4 million performance-based units, which represents the gross number of shares expected to vest based on achievement of the respective performance conditions as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and intangible amortization adjusted for the impact of certain non-cash and other items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance. Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations divided by revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations are non-GAAP financial measures used by management and our stakeholders to provide useful supplemental information that enables a better comparison of our performance across periods as well as to evaluate our core operating performance. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations to Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations is as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 2022 Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (1) $ (140) $ (317) $ (140) Interest expense 103 131 121 Income tax expense (benefit) (8) (20) 16 Depreciation 115 92 72 Intangible amortization 280 281 278 EBITDA From Continuing Operations 350 167 347 Share-based compensation 76 139 164 Transaction and integration expenses (2) 82 29 19 Restructuring 63 73 46 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments (57) 10 (38) (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 34 118 (41) Other 8 1 (1) Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations $ 556 $ 537 $ 496 Revenue $ 2,332 $ 2,386 $ 2,207 Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations (3) 23.8 % 22.5 % 22.5 % (1)Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Comparable periods have been recast to exclude these impacts. (2)Transaction and integration expenses primarily relate to acquisition and divestiture activities. (3)Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations as a percentage of revenue. Revenue Disaggregation and Gross Profit Adjusted gross profit is defined as revenue less cost of services adjusted for depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation. Adjusted gross profit margin percent is defined as adjusted gross profit divided by revenue. Management uses adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin percent as key measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating our performance. We believe that presenting adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin percent is useful to investors as it eliminates the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allows a direct comparison between periods. 38 Employer Solutions Results Year Ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2024 2023 2022 Employer Solutions Revenue Recurring $ 2,135 $ 2,141 $ 1,960 Project 197 219 204 Total Employer Solutions Revenue $ 2,332 $ 2,360 $ 2,164 Employer Solutions Gross Profit $ 794 $ 812 $ 687 Employer Solutions Gross Profit Margin 34.0 % 34.4 % 31.7 % Employer Solutions Adjusted Gross Profit $ 904 $ 912 $ 768 Employer Solutions Adjusted Gross Profit Margin 38.8 % 38.6 % 35.5 % Employer Solutions Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2024 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Employer Solutions Revenue Employer Solutions revenue was $2,332 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to $2,360 million for the prior year period. The overall decrease of $28 million was primarily driven by decreases in recurring revenues from lower volumes, Net Commercial Activity and project revenue. We experienced annual revenue retention rates of 95% and 97% in 2024 and 2023, respectively. Employer Solutions Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Profit Employer Solutions gross profit was $794 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $812 million for the prior year period. The decrease of $18 million was driven by a decrease in revenue and increases in costs associated with funding growth of current and future revenues, partially offset by lower expenses related to productivity initiatives. Employer Solutions adjusted gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased $8 million to $904 million from $912 million in the prior year period, primarily driven by a decrease in revenue and increases in costs associated with funding growth of current and future revenues, partially offset by lower expenses related to productivity initiatives. 39 Gross Profit to Adjusted Gross Profit Reconciliation Year Ended December 31, 2024 (in millions) Employer Solutions Other Total Gross Profit $ 794 $ $ 794 Add: stock-based compensation 14 14 Add: depreciation and amortization 96 96 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 904 $ $ 904 Gross Profit Margin 34.0 % % 34.0 % Adjusted Gross Profit Margin 38.8 % % 38.8 % Year Ended December 31, 2023 (in millions) Employer Solutions Other Total Gross Profit $ 812 $ (2) $ 810 Add: stock-based compensation 30 30 Add: depreciation and amortization 70 2 72 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 912 $ $ 912 Gross Profit Margin 34.4 % (7.7) % 33.9 % Adjusted Gross Profit Margin 38.6 % % 38.2 % Year Ended December 31, 2022 (in millions) Employer Solutions Other Total Gross Profit $ 687 $ (1) $ 686 Add: stock-based compensation 34 34 Add: depreciation and amortization 47 2 49 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 768 $ 1 $ 769 Gross Profit Margin 31.7 % (2.3) % 31.1 % Adjusted Gross Profit Margin 35.5 % 2.3 % 34.8 % LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Executive Summary Our primary sources of liquidity include our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses, funding of our debt requirements and capital expenditures. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, anticipated quarterly dividend payments, payments on our TRA and anticipated working capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We believe our liquidity position at December 31, 2024 remained strong. We will continue to closely monitor and proactively manage our liquidity position in consideration of the evolving economic outlook and changing interest rate environment. Indebtedness In July 2024, we paid down $440 million of the Sixth Incremental Term Loans balance and we fully repaid the principal balance of $300 million Secured Senior Notes with proceeds from the Transaction. We used the remainder of after-tax cash proceeds to return capital and for general corporate purposes, including reinvestment into growth opportunities. 40 In January 2025, the Company entered into Amendment No. 11 to Credit Agreement with a syndicate of lenders to establish a new class of Seventh Incremental Term Loans with an aggregate principal amount of $2,030 million and to reprice the outstanding Sixth Incremental Term Loans due August 31, 2028 by reducing the applicable rate from SOFR + 2.25% to SOFR + 1.75%. Share Repurchases In August 2022, we established a repurchase program allowing for authorized share repurchases. In March 2024, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $200 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock. On June 18, 2024, the Company announced that it entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the "ASR") with Barclays Bank PLC (the "ASR counterparty") to repurchase $75 million of Alight's Class A Common Stock, as part of the Company's existing share repurchase program. On July 16, 2024, the Company made an initial payment of $75 million to the ASR counterparty and received an initial delivery of shares equal in value to 80% of the prepayment amount of $75 million, based on Alights closing share price as of the effective date of July 15, 2024. The final number of shares repurchased was based on the volume-weighted average price of Alight's Class A Common Stock during the term of the transaction, less a discount and subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the ASR. The ASR was settled on September 23, 2024, resulting in an additional delivery of 2,400,041 shares of Alight's Class A Common Stock. During the three months ended September 30, 2024, the Company repurchased 10,563,306 shares of Alight's Class A Common Stock in aggregate for $75 million as part of the ASR. During the year ended December 31, 2024, there were 22,327,717 Class A Common Stock shares repurchased under the Program inclusive of shares repurchased under the ASR discussed above. As of December 31, 2024, the total remaining amount authorized for repurchase was $81 million. On February 13, 2025, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $200 million of the Companys Class A common stock, providing a total amount authorized for repurchase of $281 million after giving effect to the increase. Repurchases may be conducted through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases are subject to business and market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities and other factors. The stock repurchase program does not obligate Alight to acquire any amount of common stock, and the program may be suspended or terminated at any time by Alight at its discretion without prior notice. Quarterly Dividend Program On November 12, 2024, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a new quarterly dividend program, declaring a regular cash dividend of $0.04 per share of Class A Common Stock, payable on December 16, 2024 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 2, 2024. The dividend resulted in aggregate payments of approximately $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2024. While the Company intends to continue paying regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis, any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, whose decision will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. On February 13, 2025, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend in the amount of $0.04 per share of Class A Common Stock on March 17, 2025, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 3, 2025. Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown in Fiduciary assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds are not used for general corporate purposes and are not a source of liquidity for us. The following table provides a summary of cash flows from continuing operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 2022 Cash provided by operating activities - continuing operations $ 193 $ 247 $ 238 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities - continuing operations 847 (139) (218) Cash used for financing activities - continuing operations (1,096) (144) (184) 41 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $193 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $247 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased expenses related to the sale of the Payroll and Professional Services business. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $847 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from cash used in investing activities of $139 million for the prior year period. The increase in cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by net proceeds from the sale of the Divested Business, and a decrease in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $1,096 million as compared to cash used in financing activities of $144 million in the prior year. The primary drivers of cash used for financing activities were $765 million of debt repayments, $167 million of share repurchases, $62 million of TRA payments, $59 million of shares/units withheld in lieu of taxes, $27 million of finance lease payments, and dividend payments of $21 million, partially offset by a $5 million net increase in fiduciary liabilities. The increase in fiduciary cash was primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Fiduciary Assets At December 31, 2024, our continuing operations cash and cash equivalents were $343 million, an increase of $19 million from December 31, 2023. Of the total balances of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, none of the balances were restricted as to use. Some of our client agreements require us to hold funds on behalf of clients to pay obligations on their behalf. The levels of Fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly, depending on when we collect the amounts from clients and make payments on their behalf. Such funds are not available to service our debt or for other corporate purposes. There is typically a short period of time between when the Company receives funds and when it pays obligations on behalf of clients. We are entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds, when investment strategies are deployed, in accordance with industry custom and practice, which has historically been immaterial. In our Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amount we report for Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities are equal. Our continuing operations Fiduciary assets included cash of $239 million and $234 million at December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Other Liquidity Matters Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. For further information, see the Risk Factors section within Item 1A of this Annual Report. We do not have any material business, operations or assets in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine and we have not been materially impacted by the actions of the Russian government. Our total revenues from these three countries are de minimis for all periods presented. Tax Receivable Agreement In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into the TRA with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the TRA. Actual tax benefits realized by Alight may differ from tax benefits calculated under the TRA as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the TRA, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, we expect that the payments that Alight may make under the TRA will be substantial. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid $62 million related to the TRA. As of December 31, 2024, we expect to make payments of approximately $100 million in 2025 and payments in the range of $175 million to $200 million in 2026. 42 Contractual Obligations and Commitments In March 2024, the Company entered into an agreement with a third-party provider in the ordinary course of business for the use of certain cloud services. Under this agreement, the Company is committed to purchase services totaling $286 million over a five years term. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company had various obligations and commitments outstanding including debt of $2,025 million, operating leases of $73 million, finance leases of $58 million and purchase obligations of $286 million. Over the twelve months ending December 31, 2025, we expect to pay $25 million, $18 million, $16 million and $72 million for our debt, operating leases, finance leases and purchase obligations, respectively. For further information of each these obligations, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report, Note 8 Debt, Note 19 Lease Obligations and Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies within the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report. During 2018, the Company executed an agreement to form a strategic partnership with Wipro, a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, through 2028. As of December 31, 2024, the non-cancellable services obligation totaled $664 million, with $162 million expected to be paid over the twelve months ending December 31, 2025. We may terminate our arrangement with Wipro with cause or for our convenience. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would be required to pay a termination fee. If we had terminated the Wipro arrangement on December 31, 2024, we estimate that the termination charges would have been approximately $235 million. Critical Accounting Estimates These consolidated financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based on available information and experience. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. The areas that we believe include critical accounting policies are revenue recognition, goodwill and accounting for the TRA. The critical accounting policies discussed below involve making difficult, subjective or complex accounting estimates that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Different estimates that we could have used, or changes in estimates that are reasonably likely to occur, may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised services is transferred to the customer in the amount that best reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services. Substantially all of the Companys revenue is recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our services. On occasion, we may be entitled to a fee based on achieving certain performance criteria or contract milestones. Any taxes assessed on revenues relating to services provided to our clients are recorded on a net basis. The Company capitalizes incremental costs to obtain and fulfill contracts with a customer that are expected to be recovered. Assets recognized for the costs to fulfill a contract are amortized on a systematic basis over the expected life of the underlying customer relationships. For further discussion, see Note 3 Revenue from Contracts with Customers within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Tax Receivable Agreement The Companys TRA liability established upon completion of the Business Combination is measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). We record additional liabilities under the TRA as and when Class A units of Alight Holdings are exchanged for Class A Common Stock of Alight, Inc. Liabilities resulting from these exchanges are recorded on a gross undiscounted basis and are not remeasured at fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2024, an additional TRA liability of $90 million was established as a result of these exchanges. This amount along with the deferred tax impact of exchanges of $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, are excluded from the portion of the TRA liability that is measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Actual tax benefits realized by Alight may differ from tax benefits calculated under the TRA as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the TRA, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, we expect that the payments that Alight may make under the TRA will be substantial. The $857 million TRA liability balance at December 31, 2024 assumes: (i) a constant blended U.S. federal, state and local income tax rate of 26%, (ii) no material changes in tax law, (iii) the ability to utilize tax attributes based on current alternative tax forecasts, and (iv) 43 future payments under the TRA are made when due under the TRA. The amount of the expected future payments under the TRA has been discounted to its present value using a discount rate of 7.9%, which was determined based on benchmark rates of a similar duration. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 75 bps in the discount rate assumptions used for fiscal year 2024, would result in a change in our TRA liability balance of approximately $18 million. Goodwill Goodwill for each reporting unit is tested for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently if there are indicators that a reporting unit may be impaired. Accounting Standard Codification 350, Intangibles and Other ("ASC 350") states that an optional qualitative impairment assessment can be performed to determine whether an impairment is more likely than not by considering various factors such as macroeconomic and industry trends, reporting unit performance and overall business changes. If inconclusive evidence results from the qualitative impairment test, a quantitative assessment is performed where the Company determines the fair value of the reporting units by using a combination of the present value of expected future cash flows and a market approach based on earnings multiple data from peer companies using unobservable level 3 inputs. If an impairment is identified, an impairment is recorded by the amount that the carrying value exceeds the fair value for each reporting unit as a non-recurring fair value measurement. While the future cash flows are consistent with those that are used in our internal planning process inclusive of long-term growth assumptions, estimating cash flows requires significant judgment. Future changes to our projected cash flows can vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which may have a material impact on the outcomes of future goodwill impairment tests. The Company uses a weighted average cost of capital that represents the blended average required rate of return for equity and debt capital based on observed market return data and company specific risk factors. During the fourth quarter of 2024, the Company performed a quantitative assessment in accordance with ASC 350. We evaluated the potential for goodwill impairment by considering macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, both current and future expected financial performance, and relevant entity-specific events for each of the reporting units. We also considered our overall market performance discretely as well as in relation to our peers. We utilized a discount rate of 11.0% and a long-term growth rate of 3.5% for our Health Solutions and Wealth Solutions reporting units in the determination of fair value. Other significant assumptions utilized included the Companys projections of expected future revenues and EBITDA margin, which is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and intangible amortization as a percentage of revenue. The Company determined the fair value of its reporting units exceeded the carrying value as of October 1, 2024, and therefore, goodwill was not impaired. Based on the results of the Companys quantitative assessment, the fair value of the Health Solutions and Wealth Solutions reporting units exceeded their carrying values by 1.2% and 55.7%, respectively. A hypothetical 25-basis point increase in the discount rate or a hypothetical 50-basis point decrease in the long-term growth rate could have resulted in a goodwill impairment in the Companys Health Solutions reporting unit of $125 million. At December 31, 2024, our Health Solutions and Wealth Solutions reporting units had $3,084 million and $128 million of goodwill, respectively.