Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements which are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (the "Annual Report"). In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading cloud-based provider of integrated digital human capital and business solutions. We have an unwavering belief that a companys success starts with its people, and our solutions connect human insights with technology. The Alight Worklife employee engagement platform provides a seamless customer experience by combining content, plus AI and data analytics to enable Alight's Business Process as a Service ("BPaaS") model. Our mission-critical solutions enable employees to enrich their health, wealth and wellbeing which helps global organizations achieve a high-performance culture. On July 2, 2021 (the Closing Date), Foley Trasimene Acquisition Corp. ("FTAC") completed the business combination (the Business Combination) with Alight Holding Company, LLC (f/k/a Tempo Holding Company, LLC) (Alight Holdings or the Predecessor) contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (as amended and restated as of April 29, 2021) between FTAC, Alight Holdings and other interested parties (the Business Combination Agreement). On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, FTAC became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alight, Inc. (Alight, the Company, we us our or the Successor) and was renamed Alight Group, Inc. As a result of the Business Combination, and by virtue of such series of mergers and related transactions, the combined company is now organized in an Up-C structure, in which substantially all of the assets and business of Alight are held by Alight Holdings, of which Alight is the managing member pursuant to the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Alight Holdings that went into effect upon the completion of the Business Combination. As of March 31, 2022, Alight owns approximately 86% of the economic interest in Alight Holdings, but has 100% of the voting power and controls the management of Alight Holdings. As of March 31, 2022, the non-voting ownership percentage held by noncontrolling interest was approximately 14%. Principal Services and Segments We currently report our results of operations in three segments: Employer Solutions, Professional Services and Hosted Business. Employer Solutions, Professional Services and Hosted Business accounted for approximately 86%, 12% and 2% and 85%, 13% and 2% of consolidated revenue for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 and the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021, respectively. Employer Solutions: driven by our digital, software and AI-led capabilities powered by the Alight Worklife platform and spanning total employee wellbeing and engagement, including integrated benefits administration, healthcare navigation, financial health, employee wellbeing and payroll. These solutions are designed to support employers in effectively managing their workforce through a seamless, integrated platform. We leverage data across all interactions and activities to improve the employee experience, reduce operational costs and better inform management processes and decision-making. In addition, employees benefit from an integrated platform and user experience, coupled with a full-service client care center, helping them manage the full life cycle of their health, wealth and careers. Professional Services: includes our project-based cloud deployment and consulting offerings that provide expertise with both human capital and financial platforms. Specifically, this includes cloud advisory and deployment, and optimization services for cloud platforms such as Workday, SAP SuccessFactors, Oracle, and Cornerstone OnDemand. Revenue and Compensation Revenues are principally derived from fees paid by clients for services. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practice. 29 Technology We deliver our solutions through a set of proprietary and partner technologies, a well-developed network of providers and a structured approach to instill and sustain enterprise-wide practices of excellence. With this in mind, there are four layers to our technology strategy, all reinforced with a critical security framework: Omnichannel customer experience layer that drives a personalized approach for customers. AI and analytics layer that uses data from our transactional systems, combined with client and third-party data to drive insights for clients. Core transaction layer that powers our health, wealth and payroll systems. Infrastructure layer to provide security, stability and performance across our application landscape. Seasonality Due to buying patterns and delivery of certain products in the markets we serve, particularly given the timing of annual benefits enrollment, our revenues tend to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Licensing and Regulation Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, including United States (U.S.) federal and state laws. See the discussion contained in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report, for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. Clients We serve a broad range of clients, including Fortune 500 companies and mid-market businesses, and seek to establish high-quality, strong, long-term relationships with our clients. We proactively solicit client feedback through ongoing surveys and client councils held throughout the year, and we use this critical feedback to enhance our client services and correct course when necessary. Through these surveys, we have learned that clients value the strength and depth of our relationships, scale and breadth of our solutions and our commitment to innovation and continuous improvement. Competition The markets for our solutions are competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. Our business faces competition from other global and national companies. The market for our solutions is subject to change as a result of economic, regulatory and legislative changes, technological developments, shifting client needs and increased competition from established and new competitors. We do not believe there is any single competitor with the breadth of our solutions, and thus our competitors vary for each of our solutions. Our primary competitors include Accenture, Accolade, ADP, Benefitfocus, bswift, Businessolver, Cognizant, Conduent, Deloitte, eHealth, Empower, Fidelity, GoHealth, Grand Rounds, HealthEquity, Mercer, OneSource Virtual, Quantum Health, SD Worx, Vanguard, Voya, Willis Towers Watson, and Workday. We compete primarily on the basis of product and service quality, technology, breadth of offerings, ease of use and accessibility of technology, data protection, innovation, trust and reliability, price, and reputation. FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPARABILITY OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As a result of a number of factors, our historical results of operations are not comparable from period to period and may not be comparable to our financial results of operations in future periods. Set forth below is a brief discussion of the key factors that may impact the comparability of our results of operations in future operations. Impact of the Business Combination Alight is subject to corporate level tax rates at the federal, state and local levels. The Predecessor was and is treated as a flow-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and as such, has generally not been subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level. Accordingly, other than for certain consolidated subsidiaries of the Predecessor that are structured as corporations and unless otherwise specified, the historical results of operations and other financial information presented does not include any provision for U.S. federal income tax. Alight (together with certain corporate subsidiaries through which it owns its interest in the Predecessor) pays U.S. federal and state income taxes as a corporation on its share of our taxable income. The Business Combination was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities, including any identified intangible assets, were recorded at their preliminary fair values at the date of completion of the Business Combination, with any excess of the 30 purchase price over the preliminary fair value recorded as goodwill. The application of business combination accounting required the use of significant estimates and assumptions. As a result of the application of accounting for the Business Combination, the historical Consolidated Financial Statements of the Predecessor are not necessarily indicative of the Successors future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, increased tangible and intangible assets resulting from adjusting the basis of tangible and intangible assets to their fair value would result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the periods following the consummation of the Business Combination. In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement (the TRA) with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the TRA. Additionally, in connection with the Business Combination, we have accounted for Seller Earnout contingent consideration as a liability that requires remeasurement to fair value at the end of each reporting period and adopted the Alight 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan which will result in higher share-based compensation expenses. Lastly, the redemption of our Unsecured Senior Notes and partial paydown of the Term Loan in conjunction with the Business Combination, resulted in lower interest expense. Impact of Becoming a Public Company As a result of becoming a public company, we incur additional costs related to human resources, legal, consulting, regulatory, insurance, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS We prepared our discussion of the results of operations by comparing the results of the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 to the results of the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021. The core business operations of the Predecessor and Successor were not significantly impacted by the consummation of the Business Combination. The following table sets forth our historical results of operations for the periods indicated below: Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 725 $ 689 Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 491 452 Depreciation and amortization 11 19 Gross Profit 223 218 Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative 140 117 Depreciation and intangible amortization 85 55 Total operating expenses 225 172 Operating (Loss) Income (2 ) 46 Other Expense Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (13 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (5 ) Interest expense 29 62 Other (income) expense, net (1 ) 8 Total other expense, net 10 70 Loss Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (12 ) (24 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 1 (3 ) Net Loss (13 ) (21 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (2 ) Net Loss Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ (11 ) $ (21 ) 31 REVIEW OF RESULTS Key Components of Our Operations Revenue Our clients demand for our services ultimately drives our revenues. We generate primarily all of our revenue, which is highly recurring, from fees for services provided from contracts across all solutions, which is primarily based on a contracted fee charged per participant per period (e.g., monthly or annually, as applicable). Our contracts typically have three to five-year terms for ongoing services with mutual renewal options. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized over time when control of the promised services is transferred and the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of our services. Payment terms are consistent with industry practice. We calculate growth rates for each of our solutions in relation to recurring revenues and revenues from project work. One of the components of our growth in recurring revenues is the increase in net commercial activity which reflects items such as client wins and losses (Net Commercial Activity). We define client wins as sales to new clients and sales of new solutions to existing clients. We define client losses as instances where clients do not renew or terminate their arrangements in relation to individual solutions or all of the solutions that we provide. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization includes compensation-related and vendor costs directly attributable to client-related services and costs related to application development and client-related infrastructure. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses include the depreciation and amortization related to our hardware, software and application development. Depreciation and amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware, software and application development. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation-related costs for administrative and management employees, system and facilities expenses, and costs for external professional and consulting services. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses consist of charges relating to the depreciation of the property and equipment used in our business and the amortization of acquired customer-related and contract-based intangible assets and technology related intangible assets. Depreciation and intangible amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware and other equipment as well as amortization expense associated with future acquisitions. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period for the Seller Earnouts contingent consideration. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement Gain from change in fair value of Tax Receivable Agreement includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to our outstanding debt. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net includes non-operating expenses and income, including realized currency translation. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (Predecessor) Revenue Revenues were $725 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to $689 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $36 million reflects growth of 6% in our Employer Solutions segment and 20% in our Hosted Business Segment, partially offset by a decline of 2% in our Professional Services segment. We measure revenue growth as it relates to the cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. These products capitalize on our robust data combined with AI & analytics to deliver greater employee engagement 32 and employer outcomes. BPaaS products and services span across both the Employer Solutions and Professional Services segments and for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $114 million, which represents growth of 23% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. In addition, we also consider BPaaS bookings, defined as total contract value for BPaaS customer agreements executed in the period, to be a key indicator of future revenue growth and used as a metric of commercial activity by management and investors. For the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, BPaaS bookings of $122 million represents growth of 205% compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Recurring revenues increased by $40 million, or 7%, from $572 million to $612 million and are related to growth in all three segments. Growth in Employer Solutions is a result of higher revenues related to acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity. Growth in Professional Services is a result of increases in Net Commercial Activity. Project revenues decreased by $4 million, or 3%, from $117 million to $113 million and are related to a decline in both Professional Services and Employer Solutions. In addition, a majority of our revenue is generated in the U.S., which reflected 87% of the total revenue increase for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the Predecessor prior year period. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $39 million, or 9%, for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by recent acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2021 and higher costs related to growth in current and future revenues, including investments in key resources. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $23 million, or 20%, for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by compensation expenses related to awards issued beginning in the second half of 2021. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses increased $30 million, or 55%, for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by amortization related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the Business Combination completed in the third quarter of 2021 and acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter of 2021. Gain from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments A gain from a change in the fair value of financial instruments of $13 million was recorded for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022. The gain is due to the revaluation of our financial instruments, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have outstanding financial instruments in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement A gain from the change in the fair value of the tax receivable agreement of $5 million was recorded for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022. The revaluation gain is due to changes in the discount rate, partially offset by accretion of interest and changes in the Company's assumptions related to the timing of the utilization of the tax attributes during the term of the TRA, which we are required to revalue at the end of each reporting period. We did not have a tax receivable agreement in the Predecessor period prior to the Business Combination. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $33 million, or 53%, for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to the redemption of our Unsecured Senior Notes and partial paydown of the Term Loan in conjunction with the Business Combination completed during the third quarter of 2021. See Note 8 Debt for additional information. Loss before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Loss before income tax expense (benefit) was $12 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, an improvement of $12 million compared to $24 million for the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021, due to the drivers identified above. 33 Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax expense was $1 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to an income tax benefit of $3 million in the Predecessor prior year period. The effective tax rate of (12%) for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 is lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to losses in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which a tax benefit has not been recorded. The effective tax rate of 14% for the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily driven by foreign and state income taxes payable in jurisdictions where the Company had operations that generated operating income. See Note 7 Income Taxes for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is used to enhance our management and stakeholders understanding of certain aspects of our financial performance. This discussion is not meant to be considered in isolation, superior to, or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management also uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to manage and evaluate the business, make planning decisions, allocate resources and as performance measures for Company-wide bonus plans. These key financial measures provide an additional view of our operational performance over the long-term and provide useful information that we use in order to maintain and grow our business. The measures referred to as adjusted, have limitations as analytical tools, and such measures should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of the limitations are: Measure does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; Measure does not reflect our interest expense or the cash requirements to service interest or principal payments on our indebtedness; Measure does not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes, including payments related to the Tax Receivable Agreement; Measure does not reflect the impact on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated or amortized will often need to be replaced in the future, and the adjusted measure does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and Other companies may calculate adjusted measures differently, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Adjusted Net Income, which is defined as net loss attributable to Alight, Inc. adjusted for intangible amortization and the impact of certain non-cash items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used solely for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by the adjusted weighted-average number of shares of common stock, diluted. The adjusted weighted shares calculation assumes the full exchange of the noncontrolling interest units and non-vested time-based restricted units that were determined to be antidilutive and therefore excluded from the U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, including the adjusted weighted-average number of shares, is used by us and our investors to evaluate our core operating performance and to benchmark our operating performance against our competitors. 34 A reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to Net Loss Attributable to Alight, Inc. and the computation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2022 Numerator: Net Loss Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ (11 ) Conversion of noncontrolling interest (2 ) Intangible amortization 79 Share-based compensation 33 Transaction and integration expenses 6 Restructuring 6 Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (13 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (5 ) Other 2 Tax effect of adjustments (1) (28 ) Adjusted Net Income $ 67 Denominator: Weighted average shares outstanding - basic and diluted 456,838,216 Exchange of noncontrolling interest units (2) 76,220,431 Impact of unvested RSUs (3) 11,137,394 Adjusted shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding - diluted 544,196,041 Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share $ (0.02 ) Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (4) (5) $ 0.12 (1) Income tax effects have been calculated based on statutory tax rates for both U.S. and foreign jurisdictions based on the Company's mix of income. (2) Assumes the full exchange of the units held by noncontrolling interests for shares of Class A Common Stock of Alight, Inc. pursuant to the exchange agreement. (3) Includes non-vested time-based restricted stock units that were determined to be antidilutive for U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share purposes. (4) Excludes two tranches of contingently issuable earnout shares: (i) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") of the Company's Class A Common Stock is >$12.50 for 20 consecutive trading days; and (ii) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the VWAP of the Company's Class A Common Stock is >$15.00 for 20 consecutive trading dates. Both tranches have a seven-year duration. (5) Excludes 35,501,399 performance-based units, which represents maximum achievement of the respective performance conditions for units granted during the year ended December 31, 2021 and the three months ended March 31, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures Adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and intangible amortization adjusted for the impact of certain non-cash and other items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management and our stakeholders to provide useful supplemental information that enables a better comparison of our performance across periods. Both Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures are non-GAAP measures that are used by management and stakeholders to evaluate our core operating performance. 35 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or to distribute to stockholders or as a measure of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures to Net Loss is as follows: Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Net Loss $ (13 ) $ (21 ) Interest expense 29 62 Income tax expense (benefit) 1 (3 ) Depreciation 17 24 Intangible amortization 79 50 EBITDA 113 112 Share-based compensation 33 2 Transaction and integration expenses (1) 6 Non-recurring professional expenses (2) 9 Restructuring 6 7 Gain from change in fair value of financial instruments (13 ) Gain from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement (5 ) Other (3) 2 3 Adjusted EBITDA $ 142 $ 133 Capital expenditures (41 ) (27 ) Adjusted EBITDA less Capital Expenditures $ 101 $ 106 (1) Transaction and integration expenses relate to acquisition activity. (2) Non-recurring professional expenses includes external advisor and legal costs related to the Companys Business Combination completed in 2021. (3) For the three months ended March 31, 2022, other primarily includes expenses related to debt refinancing. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, other includes long-term incentive expenses. Segment Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Employer Solutions Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Employer Solutions Revenue Recurring revenue $ 570 $ 533 Project revenue 53 54 Total Employer Solutions Revenue $ 623 $ 587 Employer Solutions Gross Profit $ 204 $ 201 Employer Solutions Gross Profit Margin 33 % 34 % Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 142 $ 136 Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA Margin 23 % 23 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net loss to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Employer Solutions Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (Predecessor) Employer Solutions Revenue Employer Solutions total revenues were $623 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to $587 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The overall increase of $36 million was due to an increase of recurring revenues of $37 million, or 7%, from $533 million to $570 million as a result of acquisitions, increased volumes and increases in Net Commercial Activity, partially offset by a decrease in project revenues of $1 million, or 2%, from $54 million to $53 million. 36 Employer Solutions Gross Profit Employer Solutions gross profit was $204 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $201 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $3 million, or 1%, was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above and partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and future revenues . Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA was $142 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $136 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $6 million was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above, partially offset by increases in costs associated with growth of current and future revenues, including investments in our commercial functions and technology. For the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $92 million and share-based compensation of $29 million, partially offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and TRA of $16 million. For the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Employer Solutions segment that are not included in Employer Solutions Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $67 million and share-based compensation of $2 million. Professional Services Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Professional Services Revenue Recurring revenue $ 30 $ 29 Project revenue 60 63 Total Professional Services Revenue $ 90 $ 92 Professional Services Gross Profit $ 19 $ 20 Professional Services Gross Profit Margin 21 % 22 % Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ $ Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA Margin 0 % 0 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net loss to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Professional Services Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (Predecessor) Professional Services Revenue Professional Services total revenues were $90 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $92 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $2 million, or 2%, was due to a decrease in project revenues of $3 million, or 5%, from $63 million to $60 million, partially offset by an increase of recurring revenues of $1 million, or 3%, from $29 million to $30 million. Professional Services Gross Profit Professional Services gross profit was $19 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $20 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The decrease of $1 million, or 5%, was primarily due to revenue declines as discussed above. Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA was immaterial for both the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, and the Predecessor prior year period. For the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, material expenses and benefits attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $3 million and share-based compensation of $4 million, partially offset by gains from change in fair values of financial instruments and TRA of $2 million. For the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021, material expenses attributable to the Professional Services segment that are not included in Professional Services Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $6 million. 37 Hosted Business Results Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Hosted Business Revenue Recurring revenue $ 12 $ 10 Total Hosted Business Revenue 12 $ 10 Hosted Business Gross Profit $ $ (3 ) Hosted Business Gross Profit Margin 0 % -30 % Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ $ (3 ) Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA Margin 0 % -30 % (1) A reconciliation of the Company's Net loss to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis is presented above under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Hosted Business Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 (Successor) Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (Predecessor) Hosted Business Revenue Hosted Business revenues were $12 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to $10 million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $2 million, or 20%, was due to volumes. Hosted Business Gross Profit Hosted Business gross profit was immaterial for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $(3) million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $3 million was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above. Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA was immaterial for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $(3) million for the Predecessor prior year period. The increase of $3 million was primarily due to revenue growth as discussed above. For both the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 and the Predecessor prior year period, material expenses attributable to the Hosted Business segment that are not included in Hosted Business Adjusted EBITDA included depreciation and intangible amortization of $1 million. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity Executive Summary Our primary sources of liquidity include our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses, funding of our debt requirements and capital expenditures. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, payments on our Tax Receivable Agreement and anticipated working capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We believe our liquidity position at March 31, 2022 remains strong. We continue to closely monitor and proactively manage our liquidity position as economic conditions change and the potential impact of a rising interest rate environment. Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown in Fiduciary assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds are not used for general corporate purposes and are not a source of liquidity for us. 38 The following table provides a summary of cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods presented. Successor Predecessor Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Cash provided by operating activities $ 19 $ 39 Cash used for investing activities (41 ) (27 ) Cash provided by financing activities 305 155 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (2 ) 1 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 281 168 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of period $ 1,933 $ 1,704 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $20 million to $19 million for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 from $39 million for the Predecessor prior year period, driven by increased working capital requirements, partially offset by higher non-cash items and a decrease in Net loss. Working capital requirements increased by $62 million primarily related to higher benefit-related payments, timing of billings combined with slightly lower collections and lower accrued interest related to the redemption of Unsecured Senior Notes in the second half of 2021, partially offset by cash receipts related to commissions receivable. The increase in non-cash items of $34 million is primarily due to higher intangible amortization and share-based compensation expenses, partially offset by gains from changes in fair value for both financial instruments and the tax receivable agreement, all of which were related to the Business Combination completed in the third quarter of 2021. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 was $41 million, driven by capital expenditures. Cash used for investing activities for the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021 was $27 million, driven by capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the Successor three months ended March 31, 2022 was $305 million. The primary drivers of the cash provided by financing activities were a net increase in the cash flow from client funds obligations of $327 million, primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments, and borrowings of $54 million, partially offset by loan repayments of $60 million, finance lease payments of $8 million, payments for settlements related to interest rate swaps of $4 million and financing fees related to debt refinancing of $3 million. Cash provided by financing activities for the Predecessor three months ended March 31, 2021 was $155 million. The primary drivers of the cash provided by financing activities were bank borrowings of $54 million, offset by loan repayments of $62 million, payments for settlements related to interest rate swaps of $7 million, finance lease payments of $6 million, unit repurchases of $2 million, and payments for contingent consideration of $1 million. Net cash flows from financing activities also changed due to a net increase in the cash flow from client funds obligations of $179 million, primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Fiduciary Assets At March 31, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $326 million, a decrease of $46 million from December 31, 2021. Of the total balances of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, none of the balances were restricted as to use. Some of our client agreements require us to hold funds on behalf of clients to pay obligations on their behalf. The levels of Fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly, depending on when we collect the amounts from clients and make payments on their behalf. Such funds are not available to service our debt or for other corporate purposes. There is typically a short period of time between when the Company receives funds and when it pays obligations on behalf of clients. We are entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds, when investment strategies are deployed, in accordance with industry custom and practice, which has historically been immaterial. In our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amount we report for Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities are equal. Our Fiduciary assets included cash of $1,607 million and $1,280 million at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. 39 Other Liquidity Matters Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. For further information, see the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report. We do not have any material business, operations or assets in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine and we have not been materially impacted by the actions of the Russian government. Our total revenues from these three countries are de minimis for all periods presented. Tax Receivable Agreement In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into the TRA with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement. Actual tax benefits realized by Alight may differ from tax benefits calculated under the TRA as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the TRA, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, we expect that the payments that Alight may make under the TRA will be substantial. As of March 31, 2022, we do not expect to make any material payments within the next two years, and anticipate payments to become more material beginning in 2024. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our obligations and commitments during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our material contractual obligations include debt, non-cancellable contractual service and purchase obligations and lease obligations. For additional information regarding debt and non-cancellable contractual service and purchases obligations, see the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Note 8 Debt, and Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates There were no material changes from the Critical Accounting Estimates disclosed in the Annual Report. Please refer to "Critical Accounting Estimates" described in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of the Annual Report, from which there have been no material changes. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitati ve Disclosures About Market Risk. For