ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact of our new products and product enhancements will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intra-oral scanner sales in international markets, our belief that technology features and functionality of our iTero scanners will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intra-oral scanners, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of establishing regional order acquisition, treatment planning and manufacturing facilities, our intention to hire more sales representatives in 2019 and their expected impact on our sales, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, including our expectation that international revenues will grow at a faster rate then Americas for the foreseeable future,our expectation to incur additional costs related to the planned corporate structure reorganization, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part 2, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intraoral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers set forth in the Business Strategy section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful execution of our business strategy in 2019 and beyond may be affected by a number of other factors including: New Invisalign Product Portfolio and Pricing . In July 2018, we launched a new expanded Invisalign product portfolio which includes new options and greater flexibility to treat a broader range of patients. The new Invisalign product portfolio offers doctors more choices by extending desirable features across the entire portfolio and creating new Invisalign treatment packages, as well as new options to treat young patients with early mixed dentition (with a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth). The new end-to-end Invisalign product portfolio includes clear aligner product offerings for almost every patient age group and case complexity to make it easier for our doctors to tailor treatment planning to the needs of each patient. Pricing and availability for the new Invisalign product offerings and the associated terms and conditions vary by region. New Invisalign Products and Feature Enhancements . Product innovation drives greater treatment predictability, clinical applicability and ease of use for our customers which supports adoption of Invisalign treatment in their practices. Our focus is to develop solutions and features to treat a wide range of cases from simple to complex. In March 2017, we announced Invisalign treatment with Mandibular Advancement, the first clear aligner solution for Class II correction in growing tween and teen patients. This offering combines the benefits of our clear aligner system with features for moving the lower jaw forward while simultaneously aligning the teeth. Invisalign treatment with Mandibular Advancement is available in Canada, select Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific (APAC) and Latin America (LATAM) countries and, in the U.S. In April 2018, we announced a new Invisalign Go product with more user-friendly iTero digital chairside experience and greater flexibility to treat a wider range of mild to moderate cases, such as crowded or gap teeth that require teeth straightening prior to restorative treatments. Invisalign Go is available to Invisalign-trained 28 Table of Contents doctors in the U.S., the majority of European countries as well as in select APAC markets. Invisalign Go also incorporates new data-driven clinical protocols for predictable tooth movement and automated case assessments that leverages our Invisalign patients treated to date. These improvements make it easier for general practitioner dentists to tailor their treatment plans to the individual needs of each patient. Beginning July 2018, Invisalign First clear aligners, a treatment option designed with features specifically for younger patients with early mixed dentition, are available to Invisalign-trained doctors in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and the EMEA region. Invisalign First clear aligners are designed specifically to address a broad range of younger patients malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Phase 1 treatment is an early interceptive orthodontic treatment for young patients, traditionally done through arch expanders, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted, typically at ages seven through ten years. New iTero Products and Technology Innovation. The iTero scanner is an important component to our customer experience and is central to a digital approach as well as overall customer utilization of Invisalign. In April 2018, we expanded the iTero Element portfolio with the launch of the iTero Element 2 and the iTero Element Flex scanners, building on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio while streamlining orthodontic and restorative workflows. The next-generation iTero Element 2 is designed for greater performance with 2X faster start-up and 25% faster scan processing time compared to the iTero Element. The new iTero Element Flex wand-only configuration is a portable scanner for easy transport from office to office. iTero Element 2 and iTero Element Flex are currently available in Canada, the United States, majority of EMEA and select APAC countries. The existing iTero Element scanner will continue to be available in all markets. In April 2018, we announced that we received market approval for the iTero Element intra-oral scanner from the China Food and Drug Administration, and we began offering this scanner in China. The iTero Element scanner launch in China not only supports growth of our base Invisalign clear aligner business but also represents a major milestone for digital dentistry in China. As we continue to expand into markets where we sell our intra-oral scanners, we expect continued growth for the foreseeable future due to the size of the market opportunities and our relatively low market penetration in these regions. In February 2019, we announced the launch of iTero Element 5D Imaging System for comprehensive, preventative and restorative oral care. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System provides a new comprehensive approach to clinical applications, workflows and user experience that expands the suite of existing high-precision, full color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System is available in the majority of EMEA and APAC regions. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System is not yet available in the United States or Latin America. We believe that over the long-term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. The use of iTero and other digital scanners for Invisalign case submission in place of PVS impressions continues to grow and remains a positive catalyst for Invisalign utilization. For the first quarter of 2019, total Invisalign cases submitted with a digital scanner in the Americas increased to 76.0%, up from 73.5% in the fourth quarter of 2018. International scans increased to 59.3%, up from 57.5% in the fourth quarter of 2018. We believe that over the long-term, technology innovation and added features and functionality of our iTero scanners will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. 29 Table of Contents Invisalign Adoption. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as utilization rates. Our quarterly utilization rates for the last five quarters are as follows: * Invisalign utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we report International region to include EMEA and APAC. LATAM is excluded from above chart as it is not material. Our historical utilization numbers have been recast to reflect this classification. Total utilization in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 6.2 cases per doctor compared to 5.8 in the first quarter of 2018. North America: Utilization among our North American orthodontist customers reached an all time high in the first quarter of 2019 at 18.3 cases per doctor. Compared to 15.3 cases per doctor utilized in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in North American orthodontist utilization in the first quarter of 2019 reflects improvements in product and technology which continues to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence such that they now utilize Invisalign more often and on more complex cases, including their teenage patients. International: International doctor utilization was 5.5 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 5.4 in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in International utilization reflects increased utilization and continued expansion of our customer base in both EMEA and APAC regions due to increasing adoption of the product due in part to its ability to treat more complex cases. We expect that over the long-term, our utilization rates will gradually improve as a result of advancements in product and technology, which continue to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign. In addition, since the teenage and younger market makes up 75% of the approximately 12 million total orthodontic case starts each year, and as we continue to drive adoption of teenage and younger patients through sales and marketing programs, we expect our utilization rate to improve. Our utilization rates, however, may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including seasonal trends in our business along with adoption rates of new products and features. Number of New Invisalign Doctors Trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we trained 4,135 new Invisalign doctors of which 1,725 were trained in the Americas region and 2,410 in the International region. In 2018, we trained a total of 19,655 new Invisalign doctors, of which 7,885 were trained in the Americas region and 11,770 in the International region. International Invisalign Growth. We continue to focus our efforts towards increasing Invisalign clear aligner adoption by dental professionals in the EMEA and APAC markets. On a year-over-year basis, our International Invisalign volume increased 38.5% driven primarily by increased adoption as well as expansion of our customer base in both the EMEA 30 Table of Contents and APAC regions. We continue to see growth from our international orthodontists and general practitioner (GP) customers and are seeing more positive traction in the GP channel as we continue to segment our sales and marketing resources and programs specifically around each customer channel. In addition, we believe that continuous product introductions and feature improvements, such as Invisalign treatment with mandibular advancement, provide our customers with continued confidence in treating complex cases as well as teen-aged patients with Invisalign clear aligners. In 2019, we are continuing to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in select country markets. We expect International revenues to continue to grow at a faster rate than the Americas for the foreseeable future due to our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunities, and our relatively low market penetration of these regions. Our future growth is dependent upon the continued growth of Invisalign adoption and international market penetration (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. for information on related risk factors). Establish Regional Order Acquisition, Treatment Planning and Manufacturing Operations. We will continue to establish and expand additional order acquisition, treatment planning and manufacturing operations closer to our international customers in order to improve our operational efficiency and to provide doctors confidence in using Invisalign clear aligners to treat more patients and more often. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we began fabricating our aligners in our new manufacturing facility in Ziyang, China, our first aligner fabrication facility outside of Juarez, Mexico. We expect that it will take several quarters to ramp this facility up to full capacity and as a result manufacturing labor and overhead in this facility will be underutilized during this transition period (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - As we continue to grow, we are subject to growth related risks, including risks related to excess or constrained capacity at our existing facilities. for information on related risk factors). Increased Sales Force. In order to provide more comprehensive sales and service coverage, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we increased our sales force in the Americas by adding approximately 100 sales team members. We intend to continue to invest in expanding our sales force to allow us to pursue the growth opportunities within and outside of our existing geographic markets (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - We primarily rely on our direct sales force to sell our products, and any failure to maintain our direct sales force could harm our business" for information on related risk factors). Corporate Structure Reorganization. Given our continued growth and expansion internationally, during the year, we intend to reorganize our corporate structure and intercompany relationships to more closely align with the international nature of our business activities. The proposed corporate structure may also allow us to obtain financial and operational efficiencies after they are implemented. As part of this corporate structure reorganization, we intend to relocate our European headquarters from the Netherlands to Switzerland. We expect the relocation to be completed in early 2020. As a result, we will incur expenses in the near term and expect to realize the related benefits in subsequent years. The implementation of this reorganization plan may be disruptive to our business, and, following completion of the reorganization plan, our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan. Our reorganization activities, including any related expenses and the impact from affected employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - We may experience unexpected issues and expenses associated with the corporate structure reorganization, including the relocation of our European headquarters to Switzerland for information on related risk factors). Straumann Group Litigation Settlement. In March 2019, we entered into an agreement with Straumann Group to settle all outstanding patent disputes in the U.S., the U.K., and Brazil, including those involving ClearCorrect, a subsidiary of Straumann Group. Under the terms of the settlement, Straumann Group paid Align $35 million on March 29, 2019 and it was recorded as a deferred litigation settlement gain in accrued liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet due to certain contingencies which made the payment refundable as of March 31, 2019. We expect to recognize most of this gain in operating income in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operation in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, we also signed a non-binding letter of intent with Straumann Group for a 5-year global development and distribution agreement whereby Straumann would distribute 5,000 iTero Element scanners which would be fully integrated into the Straumann/Dental Wings CARES/DWOS workflow. This device would offer users access to the Straumann CARES digital workflow, Straumanns CoDiagnostix guided implant surgery and ClearCorrect, in addition to the Invisalign workflow. If for any reason the companies choose not to enter into the development and distribution agreement by July 2, 2019 or by a mutually agreed extended date, Straumann Group will pay Align an additional $16 million in lieu of the development and distribution agreement ( Refer to Note 9 "Legal Proceedings" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details). SmileDirectClub. In March 2019, we announced the outcome of the arbitration of the claims asserted against us by SDC Financial LLC, SmileDirectClub LLC, and the members of SDC Financial LLC other than the company (collectively, 31 Table of Contents the SDC Entities). As previously disclosed, the arbitration concluded on January 23, 2019. The arbitrator issued his decision on March 4, 2019. The arbitrator ordered us to close our Invisalign stores by April 3, 2019,enjoined us from opening new Invisalign stores or providing certain services in physical retail establishments, and enjoined us from using the SDC Entities confidential information. The arbitrator extended the expiration date of the non-compete provision to August 18, 2022. The arbitrator also ordered us to tender our SDC Financial LLC membership interests to the SDC Entities for a purchase price equal to the capital account balance of Align as of October 31, 2017, a price which is significantly below the current fair market value of such investment. No financial damages were awarded to the SDC Entities. In the first quarter of 2019, we recorded charges related to the store closures of approximately $30 million, composed of impairments related to the right of use lease assets, leasehold improvements and other fixed assets along with employee severance expenses. These amounts represent estimates which are subject to change as management finalizes its assessment. Changes to these estimates may be material. On April 3, 2019, we closed all Invisalign stores and returned all of SDCs confidential information. In addition, we tendered our members interests to the SDC Entities for a purchase price that SDC claims to be the capital account balance of Align as of October 31, 2017 and, as a result, we expect to record a gain of approximately $16 million in the second quarter of 2019 as other income in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operation. Although we tendered our members interests pursuant to the arbitrators decision, we dispute that the amount paid by the SDC entities is the correct amount of our capital account balance as of October 31, 2017. We anticipate that there may be additional litigation with the SDC Entities regarding the capital account balance and other issues relating to the Award and the parties relationship. ( Refer to Note 9 "Legal Proceedings" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on SDC dispute and Refer to Note 8 "Impairments and Other Charges" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on impairments). Expenses. We expect expenses to increase in 2019 due in part to: Investments in manufacturing capacity and facilities to enhance our regional capabilities; Investments in international expansion in new country markets; Investments in expansion of number of direct sales force personnel; Increase in sales, marketing and customer support resources; Product and technology innovation to enhance product efficiency and operational productivity; Increases in legal expenses, primarily related to the continued protection of our intellectual property rights, including our patents along with the additional costs related to the planned corporate structure reorganization. We believe that these investments will position us to increase our revenues and continue to grow our market share, but will negatively impact results of operations, particularly in the near term. Stock Repurchases. In February 2019, we purchased $50.0 million of our common stock on the open market under a $600.0 million repurchase plan approved by our Board of Directors in May 2018. As of March 31, 2019 , we have $450.0 million remaining under the May 2018 Repurchase Program ( Refer to Note 12 Common Stock Repurchase Programs of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our stock repurchase programs). Results of Operations Net Revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of Comprehensive Products, Non-Comprehensive Products and Non-Case revenues as defined below: Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Comprehensive (formerly known as Invisalign Full and Invisalign Teen), Invisalign Assist and Invisalign First. Non-Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Express 10, Invisalign Express 5, Express Package, Lite Package and Invisalign Go in addition to revenues from the sale of aligners to SmileDirectClub (SDC) under our supply agreement. 32 Table of Contents Non-Case includes, but is not limited to, Vivera retainers along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner segment consists of intraoral scanning systems, additional services and ancillary products available with the intraoral scanners that provide digital alternatives to the traditional cast models. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net Revenues 2019 2018 Net Change % Change Clear Aligner revenues: Americas $ 245.3 $ 209.6 $ 35.8 17.1 % International 194.9 151.7 43.2 28.5 % Non-case 29.0 24.2 4.8 19.7 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 469.2 $ 385.5 $ 83.7 21.7 % Scanner net revenues 79.8 51.4 28.3 55.1 % Total net revenues $ 549.0 $ 436.9 $ 112.0 25.6 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Clear Aligner Case Volume by Region Case volume data which represents Clear Aligner case shipments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Region 2019 2018 Net Change % Change Americas 213.2 176.5 36.7 20.8 % International 146.3 105.6 40.7 38.5 % Total case volume 359.5 282.1 77.4 27.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , total net revenues increased by $112.0 million as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily as a result of Clear Aligner case and scanner volume growth across all regions. Clear Aligner - Americas For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , Americas net revenues increased by $35.8 million as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to case volume growth across all channels and products which increased net revenues by $43.5 million. This increase was offset in part by lower average selling prices (ASP) which was mainly the result of higher promotional discounts which reduced net revenues by $7.6 million, increased net revenue deferrals by $3.5 million, and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which reduced net revenues by $2.4 million. This ASP decline was partially offset by higher prices from the new products introduced in July 2018 which increased net revenues by $8.7 million. 33 Table of Contents Clear Aligner - International For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , International net revenues increased by $ 43.2 million as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily driven by case volume growth across all channels and products which increased net revenues by $58.5 million. This increase was partially offset by lower ASP which reduced net revenues by $15.3 million. The ASP decline was mainly the result of unfavorable foreign exchange rates which reduced net revenue by $11.5 million, higher promotional discounts which reduced net revenues by $9.1 million, and a product mix shift towards lower priced products which reduced net revenues by $6.7 million. These were partially offset by $6.5 million due to the higher prices related to our new products effective July 2018, along with a benefit from going direct in several additional countries, and therefore, we now recognize direct sales at full ASP rather than the discounted distributor ASP, which increased net revenue by $3.3 million. Clear Aligner - Non-Case For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , non-case net revenues, consisting of Vivera Retainers, training fees and other product revenues, increased by $ 4.8 million as compared to the same period in 2018 . This was primarily due to increased Vivera volume across all regions, which increased revenue by $4.5 million across all regions. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , scanner and services net revenues increased by $ 28.3 million as compared to the same period in 2018 . This increase is primarily due to an increase in the number of scanners recognized which increased revenues by $11.0 million, and a larger scanner install base which resulted in higher computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) services, which increased net revenues by $10.1 million. Additionally, net revenues increased by $7.2 million due to an increase in scanner ASP, mostly attributable to higher prices from new scanner products introduced in May 2018 and price increases in North America and APAC. Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 117.8 $ 88.5 $ 29.3 % of net segment revenues 25.1 % 23.0 % Gross profit $ 351.4 $ 297.0 $ 54.4 Gross margin % 74.9 % 77.0 % Scanner Cost of net revenues $ 29.0 $ 21.0 $ 8.0 % of net segment revenues 36.4 % 40.8 % Gross profit $ 50.7 $ 30.4 $ 20.3 Gross margin % 63.6 % 59.2 % Total cost of net revenues $ 146.9 $ 109.5 $ 37.4 % of net revenues 26.8 % 25.1 % Gross profit $ 402.1 $ 327.4 $ 74.7 Gross margin % 73.2 % 74.9 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment and facilities used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets and training costs. 34 Table of Contents Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our gross margin percentage decreased as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to increase in aligners per case driven by additional aligners and lower ASP. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our gross margin increased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily driven by higher ASP and lower freight costs. Selling, general and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 247.1 $ 199.6 $ 47.5 % of net revenues 45.0 % 45.7 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related costs including payroll, commissions and stock-based compensation for our sales force, marketing and administration in addition to media and advertising expenses, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, equipment and maintenance costs, outside service costs, legal costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and Information Technology (IT). For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , selling, general and administrative expense increased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to higher compensation related costs of $32.0 million mainly from increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, incentive bonuses and fringe benefits partially due to investments in sales coverage and international expansion. We also incurred higher expenses from legal and outside service costs of $9.6 million, depreciation and amortization costs of $4.5 million and equipment, software and maintenance costs of $4.0 million. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Research and development $ 37.5 $ 29.6 $ 7.9 % of net revenues 6.8 % 6.8 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , research and development expense increased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to higher compensation costs mainly from increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, incentive bonuses and fringe benefits. Impairments and other charges (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Impairments and other charges $ 29.8 $ $ 29.8 % of net revenues 5.4 % % For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we recorded impairments and other charges of $29.8 million due to costs related to the Invisalign store closures. The impairments and other charges are comprised of operating lease right-of-use assets impairments 35 Table of Contents of $14.2 million, store leasehold improvement and other fixed asset impairments of $14.3 million, and employee severance and other expenses of $1.3 million ( Refer to Note 8Impairments and Other Charges and Note 9 Legal Proceedings of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). Income from operations (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Clear Aligner Income from operations $ 158.6 $ 161.5 $ (2.8 ) Operating margin % 33.8 % 41.9 % Scanner Income from operations $ 28.3 $ 16.1 $ 12.2 Operating margin % 35.4 % 31.3 % Total income from operations 1 $ 87.7 $ 98.2 $ (10.5 ) Operating margin % 16.0 % 22.5 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 1 Refer to Note 16 Segments and Geographical Information of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on unallocated corporate expenses and the reconciliation to Consolidated Income from Operations. Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our operating margin percentage decreased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to higher operating expenses, costs related to the Invisalign store closures, an increase in aligners per case driven by additional aligners and lower ASP. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our operating margin percentage increased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily driven by higher ASP and lower freight costs. Interest income (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Interest income $ 2.6 $ 2.2 $ 0.4 Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest includes interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , interest income increased slightly compared to the same period in 2017 mainly due to higher interest rates. Other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Other income (expense), net $ (5.7 ) $ 0.2 $ (5.9 ) Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Other income (expense), net, includes foreign exchange gains and losses, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts, interest expense and other miscellaneous charges. 36 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , other income (expense), net decreased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a $4.0 million impairment of our equity investment in a privately held company. Equity in losses of investee, net of tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Equity in losses of investee, net of tax $ 3.9 $ 1.8 $ 2.2 Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , equity in losses of investee, net of tax increased compared to the same period in 2018 due to higher losses attributable from our equity method investments ( Refer to Note 5 Equity Method Investments of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on equity method investments). Provision for income taxes (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Provision for income taxes $ 8.8 $ 2.9 $ 5.9 Effective tax rates 10.4 % 2.9 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , provision for income taxes was $ 8.8 million and $ 2.9 million , respectively, representing effective tax rates of 10.4% and 2.9% , respectively. The increase in effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily attributable to the reduction in excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation resulting from the unfavorable tax impact of IRS Notice 2018-68 issued in August 2018, which limited our officers stock compensation deductions. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , we recognized excess tax benefits of $11.9 million and $23.3 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , we had the following cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 588,001 $ 636,899 Marketable securities, short-term 144,540 98,460 Marketable securities, long-term 9,112 Total $ 732,541 $ 744,471 As of March 31, 2019 , we had $732.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and highly liquid debt instruments which primarily include commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds, foreign bonds and certificates of deposit. As of March 31, 2019 , approximately $359.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We did not repatriate funds to the U.S. during the three months ended March 31, 2019 ; however, we may do so in the future to invest in market expansion opportunities, provide additional working capital, and have greater flexibility to fund our stock repurchase programs ( Refer to Note 13 "Accounting for Income Taxes" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details). 37 Table of Contents Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 117,207 $ 77,332 Investing activities (74,418 ) 109,269 Financing activities (92,762 ) (139,822 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 1,089 1,715 Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (48,884 ) $ 48,494 Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash flows from operations of $117.2 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $71.8 million as well as the following: Significant non-cash activities Impairment charges of $28.5 million related to decreases in fair values of certain assets related to Invisalign stores; Depreciation and amortization of $22.7 million related to our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation of $21.0 million related to equity incentive compensation granted to employees and directors; and Net change in deferred tax assets of $7.6 million . Significant changes in working capital Increase of $42.7 million in accounts receivable which is primarily a result of the increase in net revenues; Increase of $42.5 million in deferred revenues corresponding to the increase in case volume; Increase of $35.0 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to timing of payments and activities; and Decrease of $5.2 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities due to timing of payments and activities partially offset by $35.0 million deferred settlement gain from Straumann litigation due to a refundable provision. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $74.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 which primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $125.8 million and property and plant and equipment purchases of $35.3 million . These outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of marketable securities of $89.0 million . For the remainder of 2019 , we expect to invest an additional $200.0 million to $220.0 million in capital expenditures primarily related to purchases of buildings located in Morrisville, North Carolina and Petach Tivka, Israel as well as additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired ( Refer to Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on purchase of building in Morrisville, North Carolina). Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $92.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 which primarily consisted of payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units through share withholdings of $50.2 million and common stock repurchases of $50.0 million . These outflows were offset in part by $9.6 million proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Common Stock Repurchases In February 2019, we purchased $50.0 million of our common stock on the open market. As of March 31, 2019 , we have $450.0 million remaining under the May 2018 Repurchase Program ( Refer to Note 12 Common Stock Repurchase Programs of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our stock repurchase programs). 38 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2018 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than obligations described in the Form 10-Q herein. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond our available liquid investments and those available under our credit facility, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase programs or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources other than certain items disclosed in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, goodwill and finite-lived assets and related impairment, and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Other than the adoption of the new lease accounting standard (ASC 842) during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Significant changes to the lease accounting policy is discussed in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.