Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, among other things, our expectations and intentions regarding our strategic objectives and the means to achieve them, our beliefs and expectations regarding macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, rising interest rates, market volatility, weakness in general economic conditions and recessions and the impact of efforts by central banks and federal, state and local governments to combat inflation and recession, our expectations and beliefs regarding customer and consumer purchasing behavior and changes in consumer spending habits, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete in our target markets, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intraoral scanners, clear aligners and other products, our expectations regarding the impact of the military conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine and our operations and assets in Israel and Russia, our marketing and efforts to build our brand awareness, our estimates regarding the size and opportunities of the markets we are targeting along with our expectations for growth in those markets, our beliefs regarding the impact of technological innovation in general, and in our solutions and products in particular, on target markets and patient care, our beliefs regarding digital dentistry and its potential to impact our business, our intentions regarding expanding our business, including its impact on our operational flexibility and responsiveness to customer demand, our beliefs regarding the importance of our manufacturing operations on our success, our beliefs regarding the need for and benefits of our technological development on Invisalign treatment, the areas of development in which we focus our efforts, and the advantages of our intellectual property portfolio, our beliefs regarding our business strategy and growth drivers, our expectations regarding the utilization rates for our products, including the impact of marketing on those rates and causes for periodic fluctuations of the rates, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the productivity impact sales representatives will have on our sales and the impact of specialization of those representatives in sales channels, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets and their growth, our expectations regarding staying in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States and internationally, our beliefs regarding our culture and commitment and its impact on our financial and operational performance and its importance to our future success, our expectations for future investments in and benefits from sales and marketing activities, our preparedness and our customers preparedness to react to changing circumstances and demand, our expectations for our expenses and capital obligations and expenditures in particular, our intentions to control spending and for investments, our intentions regarding the investment of our international earnings from operations, our belief regarding the sufficiency of our cash and investment balances and borrowing capacity, our judgments regarding the estimates used in our revenue recognition and assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, our expectations regarding our tax positions and the judgements we make related to our tax obligations, our predicted level of operating expenses and gross margins and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Executive Overview of Results Trends and Uncertainties Our business strategic priorities focus on four principal pillars for growth: (i) international expansion; (ii) general dental practitioners (GP) treatment; (iii) patient demand; and (iv) orthodontic utilization. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to facilitate the digital transformation of dentistry happening around the world, our continuous focus on innovation, and expansion to meet and exceed evolving customer expectations as the array of products and services available to them increases. Below is a discussion of the significant trends and uncertainties that could impact our operations: 26 Table of Contents Macroeconomic Challenges and Military Conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East Our revenues are susceptible to fluctuations caused by macroeconomic conditions, inflation, changes to currency exchange rates, rising interest rates, actual and threatened wars and military actions, threats of or actual recessions, supply chain challenges, market volatility, and other factors, each of which impacts customer confidence, consumer sentiment and demand. Many of these same factors also impact our costs and those of our suppliers through higher raw material prices, transportation costs, labor costs, supply and distribution operations. In 2023, we believe that sales of our products were primarily harmed by macroeconomic conditions that ultimately adversely impacted disposable income and consumer demand and this trend could continue in 2024. Additionally, for 2024, we expect the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine to continue to create market uncertainties and dampen consumer sentiment and demand, particularly in Europe. The impact of declining demand may vary by time and region, making operational results uncertain and difficult to predict. Additionally, many of our international operations are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In the first quarter of 2024, the U.S. dollar weakened against major currencies on a sequential basis, which favorably impacted our financial condition and results of operations for the quarter. However, on a year-over-year basis, the net impact from foreign exchange volatility was unfavorable to our financial condition and results of operations for the quarter. Foreign exchange volatility and the subsequent strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar against other currencies remains uncertain and unpredictable. The recent conflict in the Middle East may further exacerbate general and regional macroeconomic instability, particularly if fighting is prolonged, it spreads to other locations, creates shipping and logistical challenges or cost increases, or leads to sanctions or boycotts. Our iTero business is headquartered in Israel and the timing and cost of shipping our products has been impacted. Additionally, we have employees and consultants in Israel that have been called for military service and they may be unavailable for an unknown period of time. The conflict may continue to spread to other areas which may further impact our business. We continue to monitor the potential for violence and military actions that may directly or indirectly impact our personnel, manufacturing, supply chain, and sales. Changing Product Preferences As the markets for clear aligners and digital processes and workflows used to transform the practice of dentistry continue to mature, we anticipate customer and patient expectations and demands will evolve. We expect to meet customer demands with innovative treatment options that include more choices to address a wider scope of treatment goals and budgets based on our existing and new products. This may result in larger and unpredictable variations in geographic and product mix and selling prices with uncertain implications on our financial statements and business operations. We strive to manage the challenges from the trends and uncertainties, including the macroeconomic conditions, military conflicts and the evolution of our target markets, by focusing on improving our operations, building flexibility and efficiencies in our processes, adjusting our business models to changing circumstances and offering products that meet market demand. Specifically, we are managing cost impacts through pricing actions, implementing cost saving measures and slowing hiring. We also continue to innovate and introduce new and enhanced products that augment our doctor customer and patient experiences. For instance, in 2023, there was significant adoption of the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product and we anticipate continued adoption in 2024. The 3in3 configuration offers doctors Invisalign Comprehensive treatment with a three-year treatment expiration date and three additional clear aligners included prior to the treatment expiration date. The 3in3 product allows us to recognize more revenue up front but is offered at a lower price as compared to our traditional Invisalign comprehensive product that has a five-year treatment expiration date with unlimited additional clear aligners prior to the treatment end date. Further discussion of the impact of these challenges on our business may be found in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the heading Risk Factors. Key Financial and Operating Metrics We measure our performance against these strategic priorities by the achievement of key financial and operating metrics. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our business operations reflect the following: Revenues of $997.4 million, an increase of 5.8% year-over-year; Clear Aligner revenues of $817.3 million, an increase of 3.5% year-over-year; Americas Clear Aligner revenues of $372.3 million, an increase of 1.6% year-over-year; 27 Table of Contents International Clear Aligner revenues of $370.6 million, an increase of 4.6% year-over-year; Clear Aligner case volume increased 2.4% year-over-year and Clear Aligner case volume increase for teenage patients of 5.8% year-over-year; Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services revenues of $180.2 million, an increase of 17.5% year-over-year; Income from operations of $154.1 million and operating margin of 15.5%; Effective tax rate of 33.7%; Net income of $105.0 million with diluted net income per share of $1.39; Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $902.5 million as of March 31, 2024; Operating cash flow of $28.7 million; Capital expenditures of $9.4 million, predominantly related to increases in our manufacturing capacity and facilities; and Number of employees was 21,670 as of March 31, 2024, a decrease of 5.9% year-over-year. Other Statistical Data and Trends As of March 31, 2024, approximately 17.6 million people worldwide have been treated with our Invisalign system. Management measures these results by comparing to the millions of people who can benefit from straighter teeth and uses this data to target opportunities to expand the market for orthodontics by educating consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign system. For the first quarter of 2024, total Invisalign cases submitted with a digital scanner in the Americas increased to 95.6%, up from 93.4%* in the first quarter of 2023 and international scans increased to 88.9%, up from 86.9%* in the first quarter of 2023. For the first quarter of 2024, 98.2% of Invisalign cases submitted by North American orthodontists were submitted digitally. The total utilization rate in the first quarter of 2024 increased to 7.2 cases per doctor compared to 7.1 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2023. Utilization rates in North America and our International locations were as follows: North America: Theutilization rate among our North American orthodontist customers decreased to 28.2 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2024 compared to 28.7* cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2023 and the utilization rate among our North American GP customers remained flat at 4.9 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the first quarter of 2023. International: International doctor utilization rate was 6.3 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2024 compared to 6.2 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2023. 28 Table of Contents * Invisalign utilization rates are calculated by the number of cases shipped divided by the number of doctors to whom cases were shipped. Our International region includes Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC). Latin America (LATAM) is excluded from the International region based on its immateriality to the quarter; however is included in the Total utilization. During the third quarter of 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues that were previously included in Non-Case revenues and have recast business metrics for the periods presented above accordingly. Results of Operations Net Revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Systems and Services segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of Comprehensive Products, Non-Comprehensive Products and Non-Case revenues as defined below: Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Comprehensive and Invisalign First. Non-Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Moderate, Lite and Express packages and Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus and Invisalign Palatal Expander. We also offer in the U.S., Canada, and EMEA, a Doctor Subscription Program which is our monthly subscription-based clear aligner program. The program allows doctors the flexibility to order retainers and low-stage touch-up clear aligners within their subscribed tier and is designed for a segment of experienced Invisalign trained doctors who are currently not regularly using our retainers or low-stage aligners. The low-stage aligners, the Touch up product, are included as a Non-Comprehensive Product. Non-Case products include, but are not limited to, retention products including retention aligners ordered through the Doctor Subscription Program, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment and Invisalign Accessory Products that are complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products such as aligner cases (clamshells), teeth whitening products, cleaning solutions (crystals, foam and other material) and other oral health products available in certain commerce channels in select markets. Our Systems and Services segment consists of sales related to our iTero intraoral scanning systems, which includes a single hardware platform and restorative or orthodontic software options, upgrades and leases of scanner systems, sales of pre-owned scanner systems, subscription software, disposables, pay per scan services, as well as exocads CAD/CAM software solutions that integrate workflows to dental labs and dental practices. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Systems and Services segments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net Revenues 2024 2023 Change Clear Aligner net revenues: Americas $ 372.3 $ 366.5 $ 5.8 1.6 % International 370.6 354.2 16.4 4.6 % Non-case 74.3 69.1 5.2 7.5 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 817.3 $ 789.8 $ 27.4 3.5 % Systems and Services net revenues 180.2 153.3 26.8 17.5 % Total net revenues $ 997.4 $ 943.1 $ 54.3 5.8 % During the third quarter of 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues that were previously included in Non-Case revenues and recast the three months ended March 31, 2023. Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 29 Table of Contents Case volume data which represents Clear Aligner case shipments for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Total case volume 605.1 590.9 14.1 2.4 % During the third quarter of 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues that were previously included in Non-Case revenues and recast the three months ended March 31, 2023. Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, total net revenues increased by $54.3 million as compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to an increase in Clear Aligner volume and increases in System and Services net revenues from non-system sales, increased service revenue, and higher scanner volume. Clear Aligner - Americas For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Americas net revenues increased by $5.8 million as compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to a 1.6% increase in ASP, resulting in an increase of net revenues of $5.9 million. Higher additional aligners increased net revenues by $27.2 million and price changes increased net revenues by $8.5 million. These increases were partially offset by a product mix shift to lower priced products which reduced net revenues by $22.3 million and higher promotional discounts which decreased net revenues by $9.8 million. Clear Aligner - International For the three months ended March 31, 2024, International net revenues increased by $16.4 million as compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to a 5.3% increase in case volumes, resulting in increased net revenues by $18.7 million, partially offset by slightly lower ASP which decreased net revenues by $2.2 million. Lower ASP was largely due to higher promotional discounts which reduced net revenues by $19.9 million, a product mix shift to lower priced products reducing net revenues by $17.1 million, and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which decreased net revenues by $6.5 million. The decreases in ASP were partially offset by higher additional aligners and price changes which increased net revenues by $24.9 million and $13.9 million, respectively. Clear Aligner - Non-Case For the three months ended March 31, 2024, non-case net revenues increased by $5.2 million as compared to the same period in 2023 mainly due to increased volume of Vivera retainers which includes retention aligners ordered through our Doctor Subscription Program. Systems and Services For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Systems and Services net revenues increased by $26.8 million as compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to an increase in sales of upgrade scanner systems which increased net revenues by $9.5 million, higher scanner volume which increased net revenues by $7.4 million and services revenue which increased net revenues by $8.7 million. Additionally, Systems and Services net revenues increased due to higher scanner ASP which increased net revenues by $2.0 million. 30 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 238.1 $ 223.7 $ 14.4 % of net segment revenues 29.1 % 28.3 % Gross profit $ 579.1 $ 566.1 $ 13.0 Gross margin % 70.9 % 71.7 % Systems and Services Cost of net revenues $ 61.5 $ 58.8 $ 2.7 % of net segment revenues 34.1 % 38.4 % Gross profit $ 118.7 $ 94.5 $ 24.2 Gross margin % 65.9 % 61.6 % Total cost of net revenues $ 299.6 $ 282.5 $ 17.1 % of net revenues 30.0 % 30.0 % Gross profit $ 697.8 $ 660.7 $ 37.2 Gross margin % 70.0 % 70.0 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues includes personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, freight and shipping related costs, depreciation on capital equipment and facilities used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets and training costs. Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our gross margin percentage decreased as compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to increased manufacturing spend partially offset by higher net revenues. Systems and Services For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our gross margin percentage increased as compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to higher net revenues and lower service and manufacturing costs. Selling, general and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 451.8 $ 439.7 $ 12.1 % of net revenues 45.3 % 46.6 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense generally includes personnel-related costs, including payroll, stock-based compensation and commissions for our sales force, marketing and advertising expenses including media, clinical education, marketing materials, trade shows and industry events, legal and outside service costs, equipment, software and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and Information Technology (IT). For the three months ended March 31, 2024, selling, general and administrative expense increased compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to higher employee costs, including higher salaries expense, fringe benefits and bonus payments. 31 Table of Contents Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Research and development $ 91.9 $ 87.4 $ 4.4 % of net revenues 9.2 % 9.3 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense generally includes personnel-related costs, including payroll and stock-based compensation, outside service costs associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products, software, equipment, material and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, research and development expense increased compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to higher employee costs, including salaries expense, fringe benefits and stock-based compensation as we continue to focus on our investments in innovation and research, partially offset by lower outside service provider spend. Income from operations (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Clear Aligner Income from operations $ 286.2 $ 277.5 $ 8.7 Operating margin % 35.0 % 35.1 % Systems and Services Income from operations $ 49.7 $ 35.6 $ 14.1 Operating margin % 27.6 % 23.2 % Total income from operations 1 $ 154.1 $ 133.5 $ 20.6 Operating margin % 15.5 % 14.2 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 1 Refer to Note 14Segments and Geographical Information of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on unallocated corporate expenses and the reconciliation to Condensed Consolidated Income from Operations. Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our operating margin percentage remained relatively flat compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to a decrease in gross margin which was offset by operating leverage. Systems and Services For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our operating margin percentage increased compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to higher gross margin. Interest income (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Interest income $ 4.4 $ 2.3 $ 2.1 % of net revenues 0.4 % 0.2 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest income generally includes interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. 32 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2024, interest income increased compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to higher interest rates partially offset by lower cash and cash equivalents. Other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Other income (expense), net $ (0.1) $ (1.2) $ 1.1 % of net revenues % (0.1) % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Other income (expense), net, generally includes foreign exchange gains and losses, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts, interest expense, gains and losses on equity investments and other miscellaneous charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, other income (expense), net increased compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to a gain recorded on our equity investments, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Provision for income taxes (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Provision for income taxes $ 53.4 $ 46.8 $ 6.5 Effective tax rates 33.7 % 34.8 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 21% for both the three month periods ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 primarily due to the recognition of additional tax expense resulting from U.S. taxes on foreign earnings, foreign income taxed at different rates, state income taxes, and non-deductible expense in the U.S. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 is primarily attributable to the change in our jurisdictional mix of income and a decrease in U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Trends As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we had the following cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Cash and cash equivalents $ 865,805 $ 937,438 Marketable securities, short-term 33,101 35,304 Marketable securities, long-term 3,619 8,022 Total $ 902,525 $ 980,764 As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, approximately $685.0 million and $784.7 million, respectively, of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries. We continue to evaluate opportunities to repatriate our foreign earnings if or when needed. We do not expect to incur significant additional costs upon repatriation of these foreign earnings. We generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to external funding under our $300.0 million revolving line of credit. We believe that our current cash balances and the borrowing capacity under our credit facility, if necessary, will be sufficient to fund our business for at least the next 12 months. 33 Table of Contents Our material cash requirements are as follows: Our purchase commitments consist primarily of open purchase orders for goods and services, including manufacturing inventory, supplies and services, sales and marketing, research and development services and technological services, issued in the normal course of business. There have been no material changes to our purchase commitments for goods and services during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. There have been no material changes to our future operating lease payments during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. For 2024, we expect our investments in capital expenditures to be approximately $100.0 million. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building construction and improvements as well as manufacturing capacity in support of our continued expansion. Despite the challenging market conditions, we intend to expand our investments in research and development, manufacturing, treatment planning, sales and marketing operations to meet actual and anticipated local and regional demands. In January 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a plan to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock, $350.0 million of which had been utilized as of March 31, 2024. We continually evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares of our common stock depending on various factors including share price and liquidity. Refer to Note 10 Common Stock Repurchase Program of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our stock repurchase programs. As of March 31, 2024, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. On April 22, 2024, we invested $75 million to purchase an additional equity interest in the equity of Heartland pursuant to the April 2024 Subscription Agreement. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 28,664 $ 199,895 Investing activities (79,584) (52,829) Financing activities (11,716) (258,961) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (9,004) 2,221 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (71,640) $ (109,674) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash flows from operations of $28.7 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $105.0 million as well as the following: Significant adjustments to net income Deferred taxes of $18.0 million related to increase in long term deferred tax position; Depreciation and amortization of $32.9 million related to our investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation of $38.8 million related to equity awards granted to employees and directors; Non-cash operating lease costs of $9.6 million related to operating lease cost; and Other non-cash operating activities of $(2.4) million primarily related to a gain recorded on our equity investment. Significant changes in working capital 34 Table of Contents Net outflow of $79.2 million in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily due to the payment of UK VAT assessments related to prior periods, refer to Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies; Net outflow of $69.6 million in accounts receivable due to timing of collections, partially offset by increased revenues; and Net outflow of $34.5 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities primarily due to payments on operating lease liabilities and higher incentive accruals for 2024, as well as timing of payment of other activities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $79.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and primarily consisted of the Cubicure acquisition of $77.1 million and purchases of property, plant and equipment of $9.4 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $11.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and consisted of payroll taxes paid for equity awards through share withholdings of $26.1 million which were partially offset by $14.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, goodwill and finite-lived acquired intangible assets, income taxes and legal proceedings and litigation. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are derived primarily from the sale of aligners, scanners, and services from our Clear Aligner and Systems and Services segments. We enter into sales contracts that may consist of multiple distinct performance obligations where certain performance obligations of the sales contract are not delivered in one reporting period. We measure and allocate revenues according to ASC 606-10, Revenues from Contracts with Customers. Determining the standalone selling price (SSP) in order to allocate consideration from the contract to the individual performance obligations is the result of various factors, such as historical prices, changing trends and market conditions, costs, and gross margins. While changes in the allocation of the SSP between performance obligations will not affect the amount of total revenues recognized for a particular contract, any material changes could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which would have a material effect on our financial position and result of operations. This is because the contract consideration is allocated to each performance obligation, delivered or undelivered, at the inception of the contract based on the SSP of each distinct performance obligation. We allocate consideration for each clear aligner treatment plan based on each units SSP. Management considers a variety of factors such as same or similar product historical sales, costs, and gross margin, which may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation in making these estimates. In addition to historical data, we take into consideration changing trends and market conditions. For treatment plans with multiple options, we also consider usage rates, which is the number of times a customer is expected to order more aligners after the initial shipment. Our process for estimating usage rates requires significant judgment and evaluation of inputs, including historical usage data by region, country and channel. We estimate the SSP of each element in a scanner system and services sale taking into consideration same or similar product historical prices as well as our discounting strategies. For CAD/CAM services, we estimate the SSP of each element, including the initial software license and maintenance and support, using data such as historical prices. 35 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.