ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Alight Group, Inc. (f/k/a Foley Trasimene Acquisition Corp.). References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsors refer to Trasimene Capital Management FT, LP, an affiliate of Trasimene Capital Management, LLC, and Bilcar FT, LP, an affiliate of Bilcar Limited Partnership. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and the audited financial statements and Management Discussion and Analysis contained in the Company Form 10-K/A for the period ended December 31, 2020. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on April 29, 2020. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We were a blank check company incorporated on March 26, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We completed our Initial Public Offering on May 29, 2020 and completed the Alight Business Combination on July 2, 2021. If we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions and fund other general corporate purposes; 20 Table of Contents limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Recent Developments In March 2020, the World Health Organization classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve. The impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and related advisories and restrictions. These developments and the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on the financial markets and the overall economy are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If the financial markets and/or the overall economy continue to be impacted for an extended period, our ability to complete our initial Business Combination may be materially adversely affected due to significant governmental measures being implemented to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or treat its impact, including travel restrictions, the shutdown of businesses and quarantines, among others, which may limit our ability to have meetings with potential investors or affect the ability of a potential target companys personnel, vendors and service providers to negotiate and consummate our initial Business Combination in a timely manner. On July 2, 2021, we completed the Alight Business Combination. See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report for further discussion. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues through June 30, 2021. Our only activities from inception to June 30, 2021 have been organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company and completing our initial Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as expenses as we prepare for closing of our Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of $24,255,480, which consists of consists of non-cash loss of $25,034,667 and gain of $4,970,490 related to changes in the fair value of the Warrants and FPAs, respectively, formation and operating costs of $4,175,988 and interest income on the investments held in the Trust Account of $24,979, offset by a provision for income taxes of $40,294. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net income of $53,826,180, which consists of consists of non-cash gains of $21,880,999 and $39,276,288 related to changes in the fair value of the Warrants and FPAs, respectively, formation and operating costs of $7,433,772 and interest income on the investments held in the Trust Account of $161,030, offset by a provision for income taxes of $58,365. A majority of our formation and operating costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021 related to costs associated with completion of the Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $31,016,213, which consists of formation and operational costs of $109,445, interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account of $124,456, change in fair value of forward purchase liability of $18,909,921, change in fair value of warrant liability of $12,105,667, and provision for income taxes of $15,636. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through June 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $(31,017,171), which consists of formation and operating costs of $110,404, interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account of $124,456, change in fair value of forward purchase liability of $18,909,921, change in fair value of warrant liability of $(12,105,666), and provision for income taxes of $15,636. 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, we had cash of $14,551 outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to continue business due diligence on prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete our initial Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with our initial Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete our initial Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. As of June 30,2021 the Sponsor had advanced $1,138,058 for working capital which was repaid upon closing of the Alight Business Combination. In May 2020, the Company entered into forward purchase agreements (the FPAs) with each of Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC. Pursuant to each agreement, Cannae Holdings, Inc. and THL FTAC LLC have each agreed to purchase shares of the Companys Class A common stock in an aggregate share amount equal to 15,000,000 shares of the Companys Class A Common stock (or a total of 30,000,000 shares of the Companys Class A common stock), plus an aggregate of 5,000,000 redeemable warrants (or a total of 10,000,000 redeemable warrants) to purchase one share of the Companys Class A common stock at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $150,000,000 (or a total of $300,000,000), or $10.00 for one share of the Companys Class A common stock and one-third of one warrant, in a private placement to occur concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. The warrants to be sold as part of the FPAs will be identical to the warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering. The FPAs closed commensurate with the closing of the Alight Business Combination. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash and marketable securities of $1,036,010,297 held in the Trust Account. We used all of the funds held in the Trust Account to fund a portion of the Alight Business Combination. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $481,920. Net income of $53,826,180 was affected by the non-cash gain on the change in fair value of the Warrants of $21,880,999, non-cash gain on the change in fair value of the FPAs of $39,276,288, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $161,030 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $7,010,217 of cash from operating activities. For the period from March 26, 2020 (inception) through June 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $334,857. Net loss of $(31,017,171) was affected by the non-cash loss on the change in fair value of the Warrants of $(12,105,666), non-cash loss on the change in fair value of the FPAs of $18,909,921, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $124,456 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which used $208,817 of cash from operating activities. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements within the meaning of the applicable SEC rules as of June 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $36,225,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee became payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account in connection with the completion of the Alight Business Combination. 22 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting estimates: Warrant and Forward Purchase Liabilities The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPAs as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the specific terms of the Warrants and FPAs and the applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the Warrants and FPAs are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the Warrants and FPAs are indexed to the Companys own common shares and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of the Companys control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of issuance of the Warrants and execution of the FPAs and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the Warrants and FPAs are outstanding. For issued or modified instruments such as warrants and forward purchases of equity that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, such instruments are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified instruments that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, such instruments are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of liability-classified instruments are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPAs in accordance with ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants and FPAs do not meet the criteria for equity classification and must be recorded as liabilities. The liabilities for the Warrants and FPAs are included in Warrant liability and Forward purchase liability, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020. See Note 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report for further discussion of the pertinent terms of the Warrants and Note 9 for further discussion of the methodology used to determine the fair value of the warrant and forward purchase liabilities. Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. Net Income (Loss) per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating income or loss per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account for the period, net of applicable taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding during the period. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for and Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock for the period, by the weighted average number of shares of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding during the periods presented. 23 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. ASU 2020-06 removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company has not adopted ASU 2020-06 and is currently assessing the impact, if any, that ASU 2020-06 would have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements.