Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with the Annual Report. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements." BUSINESS Overview Alight delivers human capital management solutions to many of the worlds largest and most complex companies. This includes the implementation and administration of both employee wellbeing (e.g. health, wealth and leaves benefits). In addition, the Company implements and runs human capital management software platforms on behalf of third-party providers. Alights numerous solutions and services are utilized year-round by employees and their family members in support of their overall health, wealth and wellbeing goals. Participants can access their solutions digitally, including through a mobile application on Alight Worklife, our intuitive, cloud-based employee engagement platform. Through Alight Worklife, the Company believes it is defining the future of employee wellbeing by providing an enterprise level, integrated offering designed to drive better outcomes for organizations and individuals. We aim to be the pre-eminent employee experience partner by providing personalized experiences that help employees make the best decisions for themselves and their families about their health, wealth and wellbeing. At the same time, we help employers tackle their biggest people and business challenges by helping them understand prevalence, trends and risks to generate better outcomes for the future, such as improved employee productivity and retention, while also realizing a return on their people investment. Our data, analytics and AI allow us to deliver actionable insights that drive measurable outcomes, such as healthcare claims savings, for companies and their people. We provide solutions to manage health and retirement benefits, tools for HR management, as well as solutions to manage the workforce from the cloud. On July 2, 2021 (the Closing Date), Alight Holding Company, LLC (the "Predecessor" or "Alight Holdings") completed a business combination (the "Business Combination") with a special purpose acquisition company. On the Closing Date, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, the special purpose acquisition company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alight, Inc. (Alight, the Company, we us our or the Successor). As of March 31, 2024, Alight owned approximately 99% of the economic interest in the Predecessor, had 100% of the voting power and controlled the management of the Predecessor. The non-voting ownership percentage held by noncontrolling interest was less than 1% as of March 31, 2024. On March 20, 2024, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell its Professional Services segment and its Payroll & HCM Outsourcing businesses within the Employer Solutions segment (Payroll & Professional Services business) to an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital for up to $1.2 billion, subject to certain adjustments and regulatory approvals. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital will acquire the Payroll & Professional Services business for a transaction value of up to $1.2 billion, in the form of $1 billion in cash and up to $200 million in a seller note, of which $150 million is contingent upon the Payroll & Professional Services business' 2025 financial performance. The transaction is expected to close by mid-year 2024, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, higher operating expenses in 2024 as a result of professional fees incurred in conjunction with the transaction. 28 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS The following table sets forth our historical results of operations for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 559 $ 586 Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 356 382 Depreciation and amortization 21 17 Gross Profit 182 187 Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative 146 151 Depreciation and intangible amortization 76 76 Total Operating expenses 222 227 Operating Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (40 ) (40 ) Other (Income) Expense (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments 21 25 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 55 8 Interest expense 31 33 Other (income) expense, net 1 1 Total Other (income) expense, net 108 67 Income (Loss) Before Taxes From Continuing Operations (148 ) (107 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (27 ) (23 ) Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (121 ) (84 ) Net Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 5 10 Net Income (Loss) (116 ) (74 ) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (2 ) (6 ) Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Alight, Inc. $ (114 ) $ (68 ) REVIEW OF RESULTS Key Components of Our Continuing Operations Revenue Our clients demand for our services ultimately drives our revenues. We generate primarily all of our revenue, which is highly recurring, from fees for services provided from contracts across all solutions, which is primarily based on a contracted fee charged per participant per period (e.g., monthly or annually, as applicable). Our contracts typically have three to five-year terms for ongoing services with mutual renewal options. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized over time when control of the promised services is transferred, and the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of our services. Payment terms are consistent with industry practice. We calculate growth rates for each of our solutions in relation to recurring revenues and revenues from project work. One of the components of our growth in recurring revenues is the increase in net commercial activity which reflects items such as client wins and losses (Net Commercial Activity). We define client wins as sales to new clients and sales of new solutions to existing clients. We define client losses as instances where clients do not renew or terminate their arrangements in relation to individual solutions or all of the solutions that we provide. We measure revenue growth as it relates to the cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization includes compensation-related and vendor costs directly attributable to client-related services and costs related to application development and client-related infrastructure. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses include the depreciation and amortization related to our hardware, software and application development. Depreciation and amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware, software and application development. 29 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation-related costs for administrative and management employees, system and facilities expenses, and costs for external professional and consulting services. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses consist of charges relating to the depreciation of the property and equipment used in our business and the amortization of acquired customer-related and contract based intangible assets and technology related intangible assets. Depreciation and intangible amortization may increase or decrease in absolute dollars in future periods depending on the future level of capital investments in hardware and other equipment as well as amortization expense associated with future acquisitions. (Gain) Loss from Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Gain) loss from change in fair value of financial instruments includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period for the Seller Earnouts contingent consideration. (Gain) Loss from Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement (Gain) loss from change in fair value of Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") includes the impact of the revaluation to fair value at the end of each reporting period. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to our outstanding debt. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net includes non-operating expenses and income, including realized (gains) and losses from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions. Results of Continuing Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Revenue Revenues were $559 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $586 million for the prior year period. The decrease of $27 million or 4.6% was driven by lower volumes, net commercial activity and project revenue within our Employer Solutions segment and the wind-down of our Hosted business operations. We expect short term impacts in the first half of 2024 when compared to the prior year period as a result of large deal go-live timing and previous softness in BPaaS bookings in the first half of 2023. We also measure revenue growth as it relates to our cloud-based products and solutions that are central to our Alight Worklife platform and our next generation product suite, BPaaS Solutions. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded BPaaS revenue of $117 million, which represented growth of 20.6% compared to the prior year period. Recurring revenues decreased by $22 million, or 4.1%, from $543 million in the prior year period to $521 million and are related to decreases in our Employer Solutions segment driven by lower volumes and Net Commercial Activity. Cost of Services, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, decreased $26 million, or 6.8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by lower revenues and productivity initiatives, partially offset by continued investments in key resources. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $5 million, or 3.3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was driven by lower compensation expenses primarily related to share-based awards and lower costs incurred from our restructuring program, partially offset by professional fees related to the planned sale of our Payroll and Professional Services businesses. Depreciation and Intangible Amortization Depreciation and intangible amortization expenses remained consistent when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2024 to the prior year period. Change in Fair Value of Financial Instruments There was a $21 million loss related to the change in the fair value of financial instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a loss of $25 million for the prior year period. We are required to remeasure the financial instruments at 30 the end of each reporting period and reflect a gain or loss for the change in fair value of the financial instruments in the period the change occurred. Changes in the fair value are due to changes in the underlying assumptions, including changes in the risk free interest rate, volatility, and the closing stock price for the period. See Note 14 "Financial Instruments" for additional information. Change in Fair Value of Tax Receivable Agreement The change in the fair value of the TRA resulted in a loss of $55 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $47 million compared to a loss of $8 million for the prior year period. This revaluation loss is due to conversion of non-controlling interest during the three months ended March 31, 2024, changes in the Company's assumptions related to the timing of the utilization of tax attributes during the term of the TRA, changes in the discount rate, and passage of time. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to increased hedging activity at favorable market rates, the opportunistic repricing of our 2028 term loan and higher interest income. See Note 8 Debt for additional information. Income (Loss) Before Taxes From Continuing Operations Loss before taxes from continuing operations was $148 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to loss before taxes from continuing operations of $107 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to non-operating fair value remeasurements associated with financial instruments and the TRA. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit was $27 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to an income tax benefit of $23 million for the prior year period. The effective tax rate of 18% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was lower than the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to non-deductible portion of stock compensation expense. The effective tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was equal to the 21% U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate primarily due to the recognition of a benefit for an uncertain tax position for which the statute of limitations has lapsed, and partially offset by losses in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which tax benefits have not been recorded. See Note 7 Income Taxes for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is used to enhance our management and stakeholders understanding of certain aspects of our financial performance. This discussion is not meant to be considered in isolation, superior to, or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management also uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to manage and evaluate the business, make planning decisions, allocate resources and as performance measures for Company-wide bonus plans. These key financial measures provide an additional view of our operational performance over the long-term and provide useful information that we use in order to maintain and grow our business. The measures referred to as adjusted, have limitations as analytical tools, and such measures should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of the limitations are: Measure does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; Measure does not reflect our interest expense or the cash requirements to service interest or principal payments on our indebtedness; Measure does not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes, including payments related to the Tax Receivable Agreement; Measure does not reflect the impact on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated or amortized will often need to be replaced in the future, and the adjusted measure does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and Other companies may calculate adjusted measures differently, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations, which is defined as net income (loss) from continuing operations, adjusted for intangible amortization and the impact of certain non-cash items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational 31 performance, is a non-GAAP financial measure used solely for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations divided by the adjusted weighted-average number of shares of common stock, diluted. The adjusted weighted shares calculation assumes the full exchange of the non-controlling interest units and the full amount of non-vested time-based restricted units that were determined to be antidilutive and therefore excluded from the U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations, including the adjusted weighted-average number of shares, is used by us and our investors to evaluate our core operating performance and to benchmark our operating performance against our competitors. A reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations and the computation of Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations is as follows: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2024 2023 Numerator: Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations Attributable to Alight, Inc. (1) $ (119 ) $ (78 ) Conversion of noncontrolling interest (2 ) (6 ) Intangible amortization 71 71 Share-based compensation 28 34 Transaction and integration expenses (2) 17 2 Restructuring 15 23 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments 21 25 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 55 8 Other 1 Tax effect of adjustments (3) (29 ) (29 ) Adjusted Net Income From Continuing Operations $ 57 $ 51 Denominator: Weighted average shares outstanding - basic 540,780,315 476,145,761 Dilutive effect of the exchange of noncontrolling interest units 1,189,156 Weighted average shares outstanding - diluted 541,969,471 476,145,761 Exchange of noncontrolling interest units(4) 4,471,277 57,966,505 Impact of unvested RSUs(5) 10,158,541 10,412,840 Adjusted shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding - diluted(6)(7) 556,599,289 544,525,106 Basic (Net Loss) Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ (0.22 ) $ (0.16 ) Diluted (Net Loss) Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ (0.22 ) $ (0.16 ) Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations $ 0.10 $ 0.09 (1) Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Comparable periods have been recast to exclude these impacts. (2) Transaction and integration expenses primarily relate to acquisitions and divestiture activities. (3) Income tax effects have been calculated based on statutory tax rates for both U.S. and foreign jurisdictions based on the Company's mix of income and adjusted for significant changes in fair value measurement. (4) Assumes the full exchange of the units held by noncontrolling interests for shares of Class A Common Stock of Alight, Inc. pursuant to the exchange agreement. (5) Includes non-vested time-based restricted stock units that were determined to be antidilutive for U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share purposes. (6) Excludes two tranches of contingently issuable seller earnout shares: (i) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the Company's Class A Common Stock's volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") is >$12.50 for any 20 trading days within a consecutive period of 30 trading days; (ii) 7.5 million shares will be issued if the Company's Class A Common Stock VWAP is >$15.00 for any 20 trading days within a consecutive period of 30 trading days. Both tranches have a seven-year duration. (7) Excludes approximately 14.4 million and 31.0 million performance-based units, which represents the gross number of shares expected to vest based on achievement of the respective performance conditions as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and intangible amortization adjusted for the impact of certain non-cash and other items that we do not consider in the evaluation of ongoing operational performance. Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations 32 divided by revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations are non-GAAP financial measures used by management and our stakeholders to provide useful supplemental information that enables a better comparison of our performance across periods as well as to evaluate our core operating performance. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations to Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations is as follows: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Net Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (1) $ (121 ) $ (84 ) Interest expense 31 33 Income tax expense (benefit) (27 ) (23 ) Depreciation 26 22 Intangible amortization 71 71 EBITDA From Continuing Operations (20 ) 19 Share-based compensation 28 34 Transaction and integration expenses (2) 17 2 Restructuring 15 23 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of financial instruments 21 25 (Gain) Loss from change in fair value of tax receivable agreement 55 8 Other 1 Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations $ 116 $ 112 Revenue $ 559 $ 586 Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations (3) 20.8 % 19.1 % (1) Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Comparable periods have been recast to exclude these impacts. (2) Transaction and integration expenses primarily relate to acquisition and divestiture activities. (3) Adjusted EBITDA Margin From Continuing Operations is defined as Adjusted EBITDA From Continuing Operations as a percentage of revenue. Segment Revenue and Adjusted Gross Profit Adjusted gross profit is defined as revenue less cost of services adjusted for depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation. Adjusted gross profit margin percent is defined as adjusted gross profit divided by revenue. Management uses adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin percent as key measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating our performance. We believe that presenting adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin percent is useful to investors as it eliminates the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allows a direct comparison between periods. Employer Solutions Results Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, ($ in millions) 2024 2023 Employer Solutions Revenue Recurring $ 521 $ 533 Project 38 43 Total Employer Solutions Revenue $ 559 $ 576 Employer Solutions Gross Profit $ 182 $ 187 Employer Solutions Gross Profit Margin 32.6 % 32.5 % Employer Solutions Adjusted Gross Profit $ 208 $ 210 Employer Solutions Adjusted Gross Profit Margin 37.2 % 36.5 % Employer Solutions Segment Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Employer Solutions Revenue Employer Solutions revenue was $559 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $576 million for the prior year period. The overall decrease of $17 million was primarily driven by decreases in recurring revenues from lower volumes, net commercial activity and project revenue. Employer Solutions Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Profit Employer Solutions gross profit was $182 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $187 million for the prior year period. The decrease of $5 million was driven by a decrease in revenue and lower expenses related to productivity initiatives, partially offset by increases in costs associated with funding growth of current and future revenues. Employer Solutions adjusted gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased $2 million to $208 million from $210 million in the prior year period 33 primarily driven by a decrease in revenue and lower expenses related to productivity initiatives, partially offset by increases in costs associated with funding growth of current and future revenues. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Executive Summary Our primary sources of liquidity include our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses, funding of our debt requirements and capital expenditures. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, payments on our Tax Receivable Agreement and anticipated working capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We believe our liquidity position at March 31, 2024 remains strong. We will continue to closely monitor and proactively manage our liquidity position in light of changing economic conditions and the volatility of interest rates. The Company expects to use the net after-tax cash proceeds from the expected sale of its Payroll & Professional Services business to reduce debt, return capital and for general corporate purposes, including reinvestment into growth opportunities. In August 2022, we established a repurchase program allowing for up to $100 million in authorized share repurchases. In March 2024, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $200 million of the Companys Class A common stock. As of March 31, 2024, approximately $248 million remained available for share repurchases under our share repurchase program. Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown in Fiduciary assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds are not used for general corporate purposes and are not a source of liquidity for us. The Company's cash flows are presented inclusive of discontinued operations on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for all periods presented. The following table provides a summary of cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods presented. Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Cash provided by operating activities $ 100 $ 72 Cash used in investing activities (36 ) (45 ) Cash used in financing activities (74 ) (160 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (2 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (12 ) (133 ) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of period $ 1,747 $ 1,626 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $100 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $72 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in our net working capital requirements. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities decreased $9 million to $36 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $45 million for the prior year period, driven by capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash used for financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $74 million as compared to cash used for financing activities of $160 million in the prior year. The primary drivers of cash used for financing activities were $62 million of TRA payments, $57 million of shares/units withheld in lieu of taxes, $9 million of finance lease payments, $6 million of debt repayments, partially offset by a $60 million net increase in fiduciary liabilities. The increase in fiduciary cash is primarily due to timing of client funding and subsequent disbursement of payments. 34 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Fiduciary Assets At March 31, 2024, our continuing operations cash and cash equivalents were $256 million, a decrease of $68 million from December 31, 2023. Of the total balances of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, none of the balances were restricted as to use. Some of our client agreements require us to hold funds on behalf of clients to pay obligations on their behalf. The levels of Fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly, depending on when we collect the amounts from clients and make payments on their behalf. Such funds are not available to service our debt or for other corporate purposes. There is typically a short period of time between when the Company receives funds and when it pays obligations on behalf of clients. We are entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds, when investment strategies are deployed, in accordance with industry custom and practice, which has historically been immaterial. In our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amount we report for Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities are equal. Our continuing operations Fiduciary assets included cash of $250 million and $234 million at March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Other Liquidity Matters Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. For further information, see the Risk Factors section within Item 1A of our Annual Report. We do not have any material business, operations or assets in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine and we have not been materially impacted by the actions of the Russian government. Our total revenues from these three countries are de minimis for all periods presented. Tax Receivable Agreement In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into the TRA with certain of our pre-Business Combination owners that provides for the payment by Alight to such owners of 85% of the benefits that Alight is deemed to realize as a result of the Companys share of existing tax basis acquired in the Business Combination and other tax benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement. Actual tax benefits realized by Alight may differ from tax benefits calculated under the TRA as a result of the use of certain assumptions in the TRA, including the use of an assumed weighted-average state and local income tax rate to calculate tax benefits. While the amount of existing tax basis, the anticipated tax basis adjustments and the actual amount and utilization of tax attributes, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, we expect that the payments that Alight may make under the TRA will be substantial. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we paid $62 million related to the TRA and no further payments are expected to be made during the remainder of 2024. As of March 31, 2024, we expect to make payments of approximately $89 million in 2025. Contractual Obligations and Commitments In March 2024, the Company entered into an agreement with a third-party provider in the ordinary course of business for the use of certain cloud services. Under this agreement, the Company is committed to purchase services totaling $250 million over a 5-year term. There have been no other material changes to our obligations and commitments during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our material contractual obligations include debt, non-cancellable contractual service and purchase obligations and lease obligations. For additional information regarding debt and non-cancellable contractual service and purchases obligations, see the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Note 8 Debt, and Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates There were no material changes from the Critical Accounting Estimates disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Please refer to "Critical Accounting Estimates" described in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report.