ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact that our new products and product enhancements will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectation that the policy simplification Additional Aligners at No Charge" will help increase Invisalign utilization and volume, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of the Scanner and Services ("Scanner") business, our expectations to increase our investment in manufacturing capacity, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, the anticipated number of new doctors trained, the expected date our iTero Element Intraoral Scanner will be available, the effectiveness of our new training course and its impact on volumes, our expectations regarding our stock repurchase program, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins, and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intraoral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers set forth in the Business Strategy section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful execution of our business strategy and our results in 2016 and beyond may be affected by a number of other factors including: Additional Aligners at No Charge. In July 2015, we launched a new product policy called "Additional Aligners at No Charge" that addresses one of our customers' top complaints. Previously, we charged customers for additional aligners ordered beyond those covered by the initial treatment plan. With this product policy change, we no longer distinguish between mid-course corrections and case refinements and allow doctors to order additional aligners to address either treatment need at no charge, subject to certain requirements. These changes were effective for all new Invisalign Full, Teen, and Assist treatments shipped worldwide after July 18, 2015 as well as any open Invisalign Full, Teen and Assist cases as of that date. While this policy change was largely immaterial to our cash flows, it does impact the timing at which we recognize revenue. Based on this new product policy, beginning in the third quarter of 2015, we deferred more revenue as a result of providing free additional aligners for eligible treatments. While this product policy change will impact the timing of our revenue recognition, we believe this policy change will result in a significant improvement in customer satisfaction and loyalty, and ultimately increase Invisalign utilization and volume over time. New Products, Feature Enhancements and Technology Innovation . Product innovation drives greater treatment predictability and clinical applicability, and ease of use for our customers, which supports adoption of Invisalign in their practices. Increasing applicability and treating more complex cases requires that we move away from individual features to more comprehensive solutions so that Invisalign providers can more predictably treat the whole case, such as with Invisalign G5 for deep bite treatment, Invisalign G6 for premolar extraction and ClinCheck Pro, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to provide more precise control over final tooth position and to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. In addition, we began shipping the next generation 21 Table of Contents iTero Element Intraoral Scanner in September 2015 and expect to continue to ramp up our production over the next few quarters accordingly; however, our ability to fulfill existing orders may be impacted by capacity constraints due to a variety of factors, including our dependency on third party vendors for key components in addition to limited production yields. If we are unable to scale production of our iTero Element scanner to meet customer demand, our financial results may be negatively impacted. We believe that over the long-term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. Invisalign Adoption. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as "utilization rates." Our quarterly utilization rates for the previous 9 quarters are as follows: * Invisalign Utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to Total utilization in the first quarter of 2016 increased to 4.9 cases per doctor compared to 4.5 in the first quarter of 2015. Utilization among our North American orthodontist customers reached an all time high of 10.4 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 9.0 in the first quarter of 2015. International doctor utilization increased to 4.7 cases in the first quarter of 2016 from 4.4 in the first quarter of 2015. North American GP doctor utilization increased to 3.0 cases in the first quarter of 2016 from 2.9 in the first quarter of 2015. The increase in North America orthodontist utilization reflects improvements in product and technology, which continues to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign such that they now utilize Invisalign more often and on more complex cases, including their teenage patients. Increased International utilization reflects growth in both the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions driven by go-to-market and sales coverage investments, improving clinical education and support as well as ongoing technology innovation. We expect that over the long-term our utilization rates will gradually improve as a result of advancements in product and technology, which continue to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign, however, we expect that our utilization rates may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including seasonal trends in our business along with adoption rates of new products and features. Number of new Invisalign doctors trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. In 2015, Invisalign growth was driven primarily by increased utilization across all regions as well as by the continued expansion of our customer base as we trained a total of 9,795 new Invisalign doctors, of which 56% were trained internationally. During the first quarter of 2016, we trained 2,470 new Invisalign doctors. 22 Table of Contents International Clear Aligner Growth. We will continue to focus our efforts towards increasing adoption of our products by dental professionals in our direct international markets. On a year over year basis, international volume increased 34.1% driven primarily by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region as well as growth in Europe. In 2016, we are continuing to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in selected country markets. We expect international revenues to continue to grow at a faster rate than North America for the foreseeable future due to our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunity, and our relatively low market penetration in this region. As our international revenues have increased from $55.9 million in the first quarter of 2015 to $69.9 million in the first quarter of 2016, we are increasingly subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Although we have historically accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage risk, in the third quarter of 2015 we initiated a foreign currency economic hedging program to mitigate the foreign currency risk in countries where we have significant monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The impact from these forward contracts was not material to our financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2016. In addition, as we plan for further international expansion over the next several years, we must provide better support to our customers in these regions and be geographically closer to their practices. Accordingly, we intend to make further investments in our manufacturing over the next few years to enhance our regional capabilities. Establish Regional Order Acquisition and Treatment Planning facilities: We intend to establish additional Order Acquisition and Treatment Planning facilities closer to our International customers in order to improve our operational efficiency and provide doctors with a great experience to further improve their confidence in using Invisalign to treat more patients, more often. If demand for our product in 2016 exceeds our current expectations, or if the timing of receipt of case product orders during a given quarter is different from our expectations, we may not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand decreases or if we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. Operating Expenses. We expect operating expenses to increase in 2016 due in part to: investments in international expansion in new country markets such as India and Korea; the increase in sales and customer support resources; and product and technology innovation to address such things as treatment times, indications unique to teens, and predictability. We believe that these investments will position us to increase our revenue and continue to grow our market share. Stock Repurchase Authorization. On April 28, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a plan to repurchase up to $300.0 million of the Company's stock. Any purchases under this stock repurchase program may be made, from time-to-time, pursuant to open market purchases (including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans), privately-negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchases, block trades or derivative contracts or otherwise in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accelerated Stock Repurchase . On May 3, 2016, as part of our $300.0 million April 2014 stock repurchase program, we entered into an Accelerated Stock Repurchase (ASR) agreement to repurchase $50.0 million of our common stock (the "2016 ASR"). Under the terms of the 2016 ASR, we paid $50.0 million on May 4, 2016 and received an initial delivery of approximately 0.5 million shares based on current market prices. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on our volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the 2016 ASR, less an agreed upon discount. ( Refer to Note 9 "Common Stock Repurchase", of the Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for details on common stock repurchase). 10b5-1 Stock Repurchase Plan . On May 3, 2016, we also entered into a stock repurchase plan under which we will repurchase up to $50 million of our common stock. This stock repurchase plan is in addition to, and will become effective upon, the completion of the 2016 ASR. This stock repurchase plan will operate in accordance with guidelines specified under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, transactions, if any, will be effected in accordance with the terms of the share repurchase plan, including specified price, volume, and timing conditions. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of our Invisalign system which includes Invisalign Full, Teen and Assist ("Full Products"), Express/Lite ("Express Products"),Vivera retainers, along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner segment consists of intra-oral scanning systems and additional services available with the intra-oral scanners that provide digital alternatives to the traditional cast models. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner segment by region and our Scanner segment by region for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in millions): For the Three Months Ended, March 31, Net Revenues 2016 2015 Net Change % Change Clear Aligner Revenues: North America $ 135.7 $ 118.8 $ 16.9 14.2 % International 69.9 55.9 14.0 25.0 % Invisalign non-case 14.1 12.3 1.8 14.6 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 219.7 $ 187.0 $ 32.7 17.5 % Scanner net revenues 19.0 11.1 7.9 72.0 % Total net revenues $ 238.7 $ 198.1 $ 40.5 20.5 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Clear Aligner Case Volume by Region Case volume data which represents Invisalign case shipments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands): For the Three Months Ended, March 31, Region 2016 2015 Net Change % Change North American Invisalign 110.5 91.1 19.4 21.3 % International Invisalign 53.2 39.7 13.5 34.1 % Total Invisalign case volume 163.7 130.8 32.9 25.2 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Total net revenues increased by $40.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , respectively, as compared to the same period in 2015 , primarily as a result of Invisalign case volume growth across all regions and most products. Clear Aligner - North America In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Clear Aligner North America net revenues increased by $16.9 million compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to Invisalign case volume growth of approximately $25.3 million across all channels and products. These increases were offset in part by lower average selling prices ("ASP") which decreased net revenues by approximately $8.4 million. The decrease in ASP was as a result of higher net revenue deferrals of $4.9 million primarily due to the impact of our new additional aligner product policy launched in July 2015, and, to a lesser extent, due to higher promotional discounts in the current period compared to the same period in the prior year of $4.1 million. The decrease in ASP was offset in part by the price increase on our Full products effective April 1, 2015. 24 Table of Contents Clear Aligner - International In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Clear Aligner international net revenues increased by $14.0 million compared to the same period in 2015 primarily driven by Invisalign case volume growth of $19.1 million across all products. This was offset in part by lower ASP which decreased net revenues by approximately $5.1 million. The decrease in ASP was primarily a result of the unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rates of $2.7 million due to the weakening of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar in the current period compared to the same period in the prior year, higher net deferrals of $2.6 million mainly due to the impact of our new additional aligner product policy launched in July 2015, and, to a lesser extent, due to a product mix shift towards lower priced Invisalign products. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in ASP due to the price increase on our Full products effective July 1, 2015 as well as our transition to a direct sales model in certain Asia Pacific countries. Clear Aligner - Invisalign Non-Case Invisalign non-case net revenues consists of training fees and ancillary product revenues. Invisalign non-case net revenues increased by $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, respectively compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to increased Vivera volume both in North America and International. Scanner Scanner net revenues increased $7.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, respectively, compared to the same period in 2015 primarily as a result of an increase in the number of scanners recognized as we began shipping our next generation iTero Element scanner in September 2015, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in ASP. Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 47.6 $ 39.1 $ 8.5 % of net segment revenues 21.7 % 20.9 % Gross profit $ 172.1 $ 148.0 $ 24.1 Gross margin % 78.3 % 79.1 % Scanner and Services Cost of net revenues $ 10.5 $ 7.9 $ 2.6 % of net segment revenues 55.0 % 71.7 % Gross profit $ 8.6 $ 3.1 $ 5.5 Gross margin % 45.0 % 28.3 % Total cost of net revenues $ 58.1 $ 47.0 $ 11.1 % of net revenues 24.3 % 23.7 % Gross profit $ 180.6 $ 151.1 $ 29.5 Gross margin % 75.7 % 76.3 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes salaries for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets from Cadent, training costs and stock-based compensation. Clear Aligner Gross margin declined slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to lower ASP related to our new Additional Aligner policy implemented in July last year. 25 Table of Contents Scanner Gross margin increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to higher ASP and lower costs of our iTero Element scanner. Selling, General and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 112.2 $ 88.3 $ 23.9 % of net revenues 47.0 % 44.6 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related costs including payroll, commissions and stock-based compensation for our sales force, marketing and administration in addition to media and advertising expenses, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, outside consulting services, legal expenses, depreciation and amortization expense, the medical device excise tax ("MDET") and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to higher compensation related costs of $11.7 million as a result of increased headcount, which led to higher salaries, stock based compensation and commissions and higher marketing costs. In addition, in the first quarter of 2015 there was a refund of MDET taxes paid in 2014 of $6.8 million as our aligners which are now no longer subject to the excise tax. These increased expenses were partially offset by lower outside litigation costs of $1.4 million. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Research and development $ 15.1 $ 13.9 $ 1.2 % of net revenues 6.3 % 7.0 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs including stock-based compensation and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared to the same period in 2015 due to higher compensation costs from additional headcount and salary increases. Interest and other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ (0.4 ) $ (1.5 ) $ 1.1 Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest and other income (expense), net, includes foreign currency translation gains and losses, interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and other miscellaneous charges. Interest and other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased slightly compared to the same period in 2015 due to increased interest income on higher balances of cash, cash equivalents and investments and strengthening of the Euro against U.S. dollar. 26 Table of Contents Income tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Provision for income taxes $ 12.4 $ 11.3 $ 1.1 Effective tax rates 23.4 % 23.8 % Our provision for income taxes was $12.4 million and $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. This represents effective tax rates of 23.4% and 23.8% , respectively. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due to certain foreign earnings, primarily from Costa Rica, which are subject to a lower tax rate, state income tax expense, the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation charges and unrecognized tax benefits. We exercise significant judgment in regards to estimates of future market growth, forecasted earnings and projected taxable income in determining the provision for income taxes, and for purposes of assessing our ability to utilize any future benefit from deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2016 , we maintained a valuation allowance of $31.7 million against deferred tax assets primarily related to Israel operating loss carryforwards and Australia capital loss carryforwards. These net operating and capital loss carryforwards would result in us recording an income tax benefit if we were to conclude it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Our total gross unrecognized tax benefits was, excluding interest, $40.9 million and $39.4 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively, all of which would impact our effective tax rate if recognized. We have elected to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income taxes. The interest accrued as of March 31, 2016 is $0.9 million. We do not expect any significant changes to the amount of unrecognized tax benefit within the next twelve months. We file U.S. federal, U.S. state, and non-U.S. income tax returns. Our major tax jurisdictions are U.S. federal and the State of California. For U.S. federal and state tax returns, we are no longer subject to tax examinations for years before 2000. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to examination by foreign tax authorities for years before 2007. Our subsidiary in Israel is under audit by the local tax authorities for calendar years 2006 through 2013. We are currently under audit by the California Franchise Tax Board for fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013. In June 2009, the Costa Rica Ministry of Foreign Trade, an agency of the Government of Costa Rica, granted a twelve year extension of certain income tax incentives, which were previously granted in 2002. The incentive tax rates will expire in various years beginning in 2017. Under these incentives, all of the income in Costa Rica during these twelve year incentive periods is subject to reduced rate of Costa Rica income tax. In order to receive the benefit of these incentives, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain certain minimum levels of fixed asset investment in Costa Rica. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse, and our income in Costa Rica would be subject to taxation at higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. The Costa Rica corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 30% for 2016 and 2015. Income taxes were reduced by $8.6 million and $8.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a benefit to diluted net income per share of $0.11 and $0.10 in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales and the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , we had the following cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents $ 154,418 $ 167,714 Short-term investments 393,660 359,581 Long-term investments 132,690 151,370 Total $ 680,768 $ 678,665 27 Table of Contents Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 30,680 $ 35,645 Investing activities (35,316 ) (36,661 ) Financing activities (9,106 ) (7,097 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 446 (1,780 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (13,296 ) $ (9,893 ) As of March 31, 2016 , we had $680.8 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and debt instruments which include corporate bonds, U.S. dollar dominated foreign corporate bonds, commercial paper, municipal securities, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds and asset-backed securities. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. As of March 31, 2016 , approximately $464.8 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The costs to repatriate our foreign earnings to the U.S. would likely be material; however, our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from foreign operations, and our current plans do not require us to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations as we generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to external funding under our current revolving line of credit. Additionally, we have taken certain preliminary steps to implement an international corporate structure more closely aligned with our international operations. This potential corporate structure may reduce our overall effective tax rate and may increase our domestic cash flows through changes among our wholly-owned subsidiaries in how we get compensated for the use of our intellectual property, and how we structure our international procurement and sales operations. We believe that income taxed in certain foreign jurisdictions at a lower rate relative to the U.S. statutory rate will have a beneficial impact on our worldwide effective tax rate over the medium to long term. The decrease in effective tax rate will benefit our financial position and results of operations. In April, 2014, our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we may purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock over the next three years. As of March 31, 2016, we have approximately $100.0 million remaining under the April 2014 stock repurchase program. We expect to finance future stock repurchases with current cash on hand. On May 3, 2016, as part of our $300.0 million April 2014 stock repurchase program, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase program to repurchase $50.0 million of our common stock (the "2016 ASR"). Commencing immediately after the completion of the 2016 ASR, we will repurchase $50.0 million of our common stock on the open market. These two actions will complete the April 2014 stock repurchase program. ( Refer to Note 9 "Common Stock Repurchase", of the Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for details on common stock repurchase). On March 22, 2013, we entered into a credit facility for a $50.0 million revolving line of credit, with a $10.0 million letter of credit sublimit, and has a maturity date on March 22, 2017. ( Refer to Note 5 "Credit Facility", of the Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for details of the credit facility). We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities combined with our positive cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash flows from operations of $30.7 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $40.5 million as well as the following: 28 Table of Contents Significant non-cash activities: stock-based compensation of $12.5 million related to equity incentive compensation awards granted to our employees, and depreciation and amortization of $4.8 million related to our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, offset in part by excess tax benefits from our share-based compensation arrangements of $8.1 million . Significant changes in working capital: an increase of $20.8 million in accounts receivable which is a result of the increase in net revenues, an increase of $14.7 million in deferred revenues corresponding to the increases in case shipments, and a decrease of $14.5 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities primarily due to the payment of our 2015 bonus. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $35.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily consisting of purchases of marketable securities of $143.9 million , and property, plant and equipment purchases of $20.2 million . These outflows were partially offset in part by $128.8 million of maturities and sales of our marketable securities. For the remainder of 2016, we expect to spend an additional $45.0 million to $50.0 million on capital expenditures for estimated total capital expenditures of $65.0 million to $70.0 million for 2016 primarily for additional manufacturing capacity and infrastructure including a project to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $9.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily resulting from payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units through share withholdings of $22.6 million . These outflows were offset in part by $8.1 million from excess tax benefits from our share-based compensation arrangements and $5.4 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2015 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond those available under our credit facility, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Indemnification Provisions In the normal course of business to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties: customers, vendors, lessors and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, services to be provided by us and intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. 29 Table of Contents It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. As of March 31, 2016 , we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, net revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, intangible assets, legal contingencies, impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our most significant estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies and related disclosures appear in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015: Revenue recognition; Stock-based compensation expense; Goodwill and finite-lived acquired intangible assets, Impairment of goodwill, finite-lived acquired intangible assets and long-lived assets, and Accounting for income taxes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.