Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2025. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to the Company, Alkami, we, us and our refer to Alkami Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Any statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and should be evaluated as such. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business plan and strategies. These statements often include words such as anticipates, commits, expects, suggests, plans, believes, intends, estimates, targets, projects, seeks, should, can, could, would, may, will, forecasts strategy, future, likely or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. We base these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, plans and assumptions that we have made in light of our experience in the industry, as well as our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances at such time. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions at the time they are made, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, along with the factors discussed in Risk Factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, may materially affect such forward-looking statements: managing our rapid growth; attracting new clients and retaining and broadening our existing clients use of our solutions; maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brand; predicting the long-term rate of client subscription renewals or adoption of our solutions; the unpredictable and time-consuming nature of our sales cycles; integration with and reliance on third-party software, content and services; integrating our solutions with other systems used by our clients; satisfying our clients and meeting their digital banking needs; our dependence on the data centers operated by third parties and third-party internet hosting providers; defects, errors or other performance problems associated with our solutions; retaining our management team and key employees and recruiting and retaining new employees; managing the increased complexity of our clients integration and functionality requirements; shifts in the number of account holders and registered users of our solutions, their use of our solutions and our clients implementation and client support needs; acquiring or investing in other companies or pursuing business partnerships; natural or man-made disasters; use and reliance upon technology and development resources in India; environmental and social matters; cybersecurity breaches or other compromises of our security measures or those of third parties upon which we rely; privacy and data security concerns, laws, regulations and standards and our processing and use of the PI of end users; intense competition in the markets we serve; reliance on the financial services industry as the source of our revenue in the event of any downturn, consolidation or decrease in technological spend in such industry; evolving technological requirements and changes and additions to our solution offerings; reliance on the development of the market for digital banking solutions; regulations and laws applicable to us, our clients and our solutions, including the impact of tariff and trade policies on us and our clients; protecting our intellectual property rights and defending ourselves against claims that we are misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others; using open-source software in our solutions or risks resulting in the disclosure of our proprietary source code to our clients; complying with license or technology agreements with third parties and our ability to enter into additional license or technology agreements on reasonable terms; litigation or threats of litigation; the fluctuation of our quarterly and annual results of operations relative to our expectations and guidance; the way we recognize revenue, which has the effect of delaying changes in the subscriptions for our solutions from being reflected in our operating results; our limited operating history, our history of operating losses and our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards; risks from our indebtedness and liabilities; our ability to raise sufficient capital and the resulting dilution and the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement (as defined below); our ability to raise necessary funds to repurchase the 2030 Convertible Notes (as defined below) or to pay any cash amounts due upon their maturity or conversion; counterparty risk with respect to the Capped Calls (as defined below); unanticipated changes in tax laws or regulations; loss of emerging growth company status; future strategic initiatives, including acquisitions of businesses and strategic investments; future sales of shares of our common stock, our lack of an intention to pay dividends and significant influence of our principal stockholders; and anti-takeover and exclusive forum provisions in our governing documents. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Overview Alkami is a cloud-based digital banking solutions provider. We inspire and empower community, regional and super-regional financial institutions (FIs) to compete with large, technologically advanced and well-resourced banks in the United States. Our solution, the Alkami Digital Banking Platform, allows FIs to onboard and engage new users, accelerate revenues and meaningfully improve operational efficiency, all with the support of a proprietary, true cloud-based, multi-tenant architecture. We cultivate deep relationships with our clients through long-term, subscription-based contractual arrangements, aligning our growth with our clients success and generating an attractive unit economic model. Alkami was founded to help level the playing field for FIs. Since then, our vision has been to create a platform that combines premium technology and fintech solutions in one integrated ecosystem, delivered as a software-as-a-service (SaaS) solution and providing our clients customers with a single point of access to all things digital. We have invested significant resources to build a technology stack that prioritized innovation velocity and speed-to-market given the importance of product depth and functionality in winning and retaining clients. In October 2020, we acquired ACH Alert, LLC (ACH Alert) to pursue adjacent product opportunities, such as fraud prevention and to expand our addressable market. In September 2021, we acquired MK Decisioning Systems, LLC (MK), a technology platform for onboarding and account opening, credit card and loan origination solutions. In April 2022, we acquired Segmint, Inc. (Segmint), a leading cloud-based financial data analytics and transaction data cleansing provider. In March 2025, we acquired Fin Technologies, Inc., dba MANTL (MANTL), an onboarding and account opening solutions provider that allow financial institutions to acquire commercial, business and retail customers through a variety of channels for many deposit account types. During 2024, we established a new subsidiary in India to support potential future operational needs. As of March 31, 2025, this entity had immaterial operations and did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial results. We will continue to assess the impact of this entity as operations evolve. Our domain expertise in retail and business banking has enabled us to develop a suite of products tailored to address key challenges faced by FIs. Due to our architecture, adding products through our single code base is fast, simple and cost-effective. The key differentiators of the Alkami Digital Banking Platform include: User experience: Personalized and seamless digital experience across user interaction points, including desktop, mobile, chat and SMS, establishing durable connections between FIs and their customers. Integrations: Scalability and extensibility driven by more than 300 real-time integrations to back-office systems and third-party fintech solutions as of March 31, 2025, including core systems, payment cards, mortgages, bill pay, electronic documents, money movement, personal financial management and account opening. Deep data capabilities: Data synchronized and stored from back-office systems and third-party fintech solutions and synthesized into meaningful insights, targeted content, and other areas of monetization. The Alkami Digital Banking Platform offers an end-to-end set of digital banking products. Our typical relationship with an FI begins with a set of core functional components, which can extend over time to include a rounded suite of products across account opening, marketing, data insights, card experience, money movement, customer service, business banking, financial wellness, security and fraud protection and extensibility. We primarily go to market through an internal sales force. Given the long-term nature of our Alkami Digital Banking Platform contracts, a typical sales cycle can range from approximately three to 12 months, with the subsequent implementation timeframe generally ranging from six to 12 months depending on the depth of integration. We derive our Alkami Digital Banking Platform revenues almost entirely from multi-year contracts that are based on an average contract life of approximately 70 months as of March 31, 2025. We predominantly employ a per-registered-user pricing model, with incremental fees above certain contractual client minimum commitments for each licensed solution. In these cases, our pricing is tiered, with per-registered-user discounts applied as clients achieve higher levels of customer penetration, incentivizing our clients to internally market and promote digital engagement. To support our growth and capitalize on our market opportunity, we have increased our operating expenses across all aspects of our business. In research and development, we continue to focus on innovation and bringing novel capabilities to our platform, extending our product depth. Similarly, we continue to expand our sales and marketing organization focusing on new client wins, cross-selling opportunities and client renewals. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, our total revenues were $97.8 million and $76.1 million, respectively, representing a 28.5% increase period-over-period. SaaS subscription revenues, as further described below, represented 94.9% and 95.9% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We incurred net losses of $7.8 million and $11.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, largely on the basis of significant continued investment in sales, marketing, product development and post-sales client activities. Recent Developments Merger with MANTL. On March 17, 2025, the Company consummated its previously announced merger with MANTL, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated February 27, 2025, with MANTL surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. MANTL provides onboarding and account opening solutions that allow financial institutions to acquire commercial, business and retail customers through a variety of channels for many deposit account types. The aggregate consideration paid in exchange for all of the outstanding equity interests of MANTL was approximately $375 million, net of cash acquired. Approximately $9.1 million of the consideration was placed into escrow to secure certain post-closing indemnification obligations in the Merger Agreement. See Note 3 to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. In connection with the acquisition of MANTL, on February 27, 2025, the Company entered into a Third Amendment (the Third Amendment) to its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2022 (as amended, the Amended Credit Agreement), which, among other things, extended the maturity date of the revolving commitment, increased the amount of the revolving loan commitment, extended the Financial Covenant Trigger Date (as defined therein), reduced the applicable interest rate margins, permitted the acquisition of MANTL pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, permitted certain convertible indebtedness and equity derivative transactions, subject to certain restrictions, and modified certain covenants. See Note 8 to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Issuance of Convertible Senior Notes. On March 13, 2025, the Company issued $345 million principal amount of its 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (the 2030 Convertible Notes or Notes). The Notes were issued pursuant to, and are governed by, an indenture (the Indenture), dated as of March 13, 2025, between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the Trustee). Pursuant to the purchase agreement between the Company and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the Notes, the Company granted the initial purchasers an option to purchase, for settlement within a period of 13 days from, and including, the date the Notes are first issued, up to an additional $45 million principal amount of Notes. The Notes issued on March 13, 2025 include $45 million principal amount of Notes issued pursuant to the full exercise by the initial purchasers of such option. See Note 8 to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors Affecting our Operating Results Growing our FI Client Base. A key part of our strategy is to grow our FI client base. As of March 31, 2025, we served 278 FIs through the Alkami Digital Banking Platform and more than 850 clients when including unique clients only subscribing to one or a combination of ACH Alert, Segmint, or MANTL products. Each of our digital banking client wins is a competitive takeaway, and as such, our historical ability to grow our client base has been a function of product depth, technological excellence and a sales and marketing function able to match our solutions with the strategic objectives of our clients. Our future success will significantly depend on our ability to continue to grow our FI client base through competitive wins. Deepening Client Customer Penetration. We primarily generate revenues through a per-registered-user pricing model. Once we onboard a client, our ability to help drive incremental client customer digital adoption translates to additional revenues with very limited additional spend. Our FI clients are incentivized to market and encourage digital account sign-up based on identifiable improvement in customer engagement, as well as discounts received based on certain levels of customer penetration. We expect to continue to support digital adoption by client customers through continued investments in new products and platform enhancements. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to deepen client customer penetration. Expanding our Product Suite. Product depth is a key determinant in winning new clients. In a replacement market, we win based on our ability to bring a product suite to market that is superior to the incumbent, as well as to our broader competition. Of equal importance is the ability to cohesively deliver a deep product suite with as little friction as possible to the client customer. The depth of our product suite is a function of technology and platform partnerships. Our platform model with more than 300 integrations as of March 31, 2025 enables us to deliver thousands of configurations aligned with the digital platform strategies adopted by our clients. We expect our future success in winning new clients to be partially driven by our ability to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative products to FI clients in a timely manner. Furthermore, expanding our product suite expands our Revenue per Registered User (RPU) potential. For additional information regarding RPU, see Key Business Metrics. Client Renewals. Our model and the stability of our revenue base is, in part, driven by our ability to renew our clients. In addition to extending existing relationships, renewals provide an opportunity to grow minimum contract value, as over the course of a contract term our clients often grow, or their needs evolve. Client renewals are also an important lever in driving our long-term gross margin targets, as we generally achieve approximately 70% gross margin upon renewal. We had 4 client renewals for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We expect client renewals to continue to play a key role in our future success. Continued Leadership in Innovation. Our ability to maintain a differentiated platform and offering is dependent upon our pace of innovation. Our single code base, built on a multi-tenant infrastructure and combined with continuous software delivery enables us to bring new, innovative products to market quickly and positions us with what we believe is market-leading breadth in terms of product offerings and feature sets. We remain committed to investing in our platform, notably through our research and development spend, which was 27.5% and 30.0% of our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. Our future success will depend on our continued leadership in innovation. Components of Results of Operations Revenues Our client relationships are predominantly based on multi-year contracts for the Alkami Digital Banking Platform that have had an average contract life of approximately 70 months as of March 31, 2025. We derive the majority of our revenues from SaaS subscription services charged for the use of our digital banking solution. Subscription services are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the client agreement term beginning on the date our solution is made available to our client. The promised consideration may include fixed or variable amounts. For our clients with enterprise license contracts, they are invoiced on an agreed upon monthly rate throughout the contract term, which may include fixed monthly or annual rate escalations. Fixed dollar or percentage escalations that are not based on registered users are considered part of the fixed transaction price and recognized on a straight line basis over the SaaS subscription period evenly. The majority of our client contracts are based on registered users, which we invoice monthly a contractual minimum fee for each licensed solution. In addition, we invoice monthly an additional subscription fee for the number of registered users using each solution and the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions those registered users conduct through our digital banking platform in excess of their contractual client minimum commitments. Our pricing is tiered, with per-registered-user discounts applied as clients achieve higher levels of customer penetration, incentivizing our clients to internally market our products and promote digital engagement. Variable consideration earned for subscription fees in excess of contractual minimums is recognized as revenues in the month of actual usage. SaaS subscription services also include annual and monthly charges for maintenance and support services, which are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term. We receive implementation and other upfront fees for the implementation, configuration and integration of our digital banking platform. We typically invoice these services as a fixed price per contract. These fees are not distinct from the underlying licensed SaaS subscription services. As a result, we recognize the resulting revenues on a straight-line basis over the clients initial agreement term for our licensed SaaS solutions, commencing upon launch. Occasionally, our clients request custom development and other professional services, which we provide. These are generally one-time requests and involve unique, non-standard features, functions, conversions, or integrations that are intended to enhance or modify their licensed SaaS solutions. We recognize revenues at the point in time the services are transferred to the client. The following table disaggregates our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 by major source: Three months ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 SaaS subscription services $ 92,808 $ 73,012 Implementation services 2,272 1,848 Other services 2,755 1,267 Total revenues $ 97,835 $ 76,127 See Note 5 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, travel and related costs for employees supporting our SaaS subscription, implementation and other services. This includes the costs of our implementation, client support and development personnel responsible for maintaining and releasing updates to our platform, as well as third-party cloud-based hosting services. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay services and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, depreciation, and the amortization of acquired technology. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for an implementation once revenue recognition commences. The amortization period is typically five to seven years, which represents the expected period of client benefit. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation, client support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our clients and support our growth. We expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business, but to vary as a percentage of revenues from period to period as a function of the utilization of implementation and support personnel and the extent to which we recognize fees from bill-pay services and other third-party functionality integrated into our solutions. Our gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was 59.0% and 57.8%, respectively. The major components of cost of revenues are represented in the following table as percentages of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively: Three months ended March 31, (Cost component as a % of revenue) 2025 2024 Third-party hosting services 5.2 % 6.4 % Direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property 18.4 % 18.5 % Implementation and client support teams 9.3 % 9.5 % Development team (maintenance and updates) 2.9 % 3.9 % Amortization 2.5 % 2.3 % Stock-based compensation 2.7 % 1.6 % Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development costs consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our engineering, information technology and product employees, including salaries, bonuses, other incentive-related compensation, employee benefits and stock-based compensation. In addition, we also include third-party contractor expenses, software development and testing tools, allocated corporate expenses and other expenses related to developing new solutions and upgrading and enhancing existing solutions. We expect research and development costs to increase as we expand our platform with new features and functionality, as well as enhance the existing Alkami Digital Banking Platform. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs of our sales, marketing and our client success employees, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, other incentive-related compensation, employee benefits and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include travel and related costs, outside consulting fees and marketing programs, including lead generation, costs of our annual client conference, advertising, trade shows and other event expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase as we expand our direct sales teams to pursue our market opportunity. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, information technology, security and compliance and other administrative employees, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, other incentive-related compensation, employee benefits and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include accounting, auditing and legal professional services fees, secondary offering costs, travel and other unallocated corporate-related expenses, such as the cost of our facilities, employee relations, corporate telecommunication and software. We expect that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase as we scale our business and as we incur costs associated with being a publicly traded company, including legal, audit, business insurance and consulting fees. Acquisition-Related Expenses. Acquisition-related expenses are primarily related to legal, consulting and professional fees. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles. Amortization of acquired intangibles represents the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with our business acquisitions, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Loss on impairment of intangible assets. Loss on impairment of intangible assets related to the impact of the acquisition of MANTL to certain historical developed technology, customer relationships and capitalized developed software assets. Non-operating Income (Expense) Non-operating income (expense) consists primarily of interest income from our cash balances, interest expense from borrowings under our revolving line of credit, amortization of deferred debt costs, unrealized gains or losses on marketable securities and realized gains on sales of marketable securities. (Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory tax rate primarily due to the impact of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and state tax expense. As a result of our valuation allowance, benefit from income taxes consists primarily of state income taxes and deferred taxes related to the tax amortization of acquired goodwill, offset by a deferred tax benefit attributable to the partial release of the Companys pre-existing valuation allowance related to the MANTL business combination. See Notes 3 and 10 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Results of Operations The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this filing. The financial results of MANTL, for the period of March 18, 2025 through March 31, 2025, are included in the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements and notes. The following table presents our selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Three months ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Revenues $ 97,835 $ 76,127 Cost of revenues (1) (2) 40,075 32,095 Gross profit 57,760 44,032 Operating expenses (2): Research and development 26,885 22,820 Sales and marketing 17,899 13,843 General and administrative 23,771 19,315 Acquisition-related expenses 2,378 60 Amortization of acquired intangibles 568 359 Loss on impairment of intangible assets 1,655 Total operating expenses 73,156 56,397 Loss from operations (15,396) (12,365) Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 1,096 1,082 Interest expense (801) (73) Gain on financial instruments 112 Loss before income taxes (15,101) (11,244) (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (7,285) 189 Net loss $ (7,816) $ (11,433) (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $1.9 million and $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows: Three months ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Cost of revenues $ 2,636 $ 1,178 Research and development 5,434 3,998 Sales and marketing 2,847 2,031 General and administrative 9,085 6,345 Total stock-based compensation expenses $ 20,002 $ 13,552 The following table presents our reconciliation of GAAP net loss to adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated. Three months ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net loss $ (7,816) $ (11,433) (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (7,285) 189 Gain on financial instruments (112) Interest income, net (295) (1,009) Depreciation and amortization 3,430 2,562 Stock-based compensation expense 20,002 13,552 Acquisition-related expenses 2,378 60 Loss on impairment of intangible assets 1,655 Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 12,069 $ 3,809 (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net loss as a measure of operating performance or as a measure of liquidity. For additional information regarding adjusted EBITDA, see Key Business Metrics. Key Business Metrics Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net loss as a measure of operating performance or as a measure of liquidity. We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before (benefit from) provision for income taxes; gain on financial instruments; interest income, net; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; acquisition-related expenses; and loss on impairment of intangible assets. We believe adjusted EBITDA provides investors and other users of our financial information consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR). We calculate ARR by aggregating annualized recurring revenue related to SaaS subscription services recognized in the last month of the reporting period, as well as the next 12 months of expected implementation services revenues in the last month of the reporting period. We believe ARR provides important information about our future revenue potential, our ability to acquire new clients, and our ability to maintain and expand our relationship with existing clients. Registered Users. We define a registered user as an individual or business related to an account holder of an FI client on our digital banking platform and has access as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We exclude individuals or businesses that solely use the products and services of our acquisitions. We price our digital banking platform based on the number of registered users, so as the number of registered users of our digital banking platform increases, our ARR grows. We believe growth in the number of registered users provides important information about our ability to expand market adoption of our digital banking platform and its associated software products, and therefore to grow revenues over time. Revenue per Registered User (RPU). We calculate RPU by dividing ARR as of the last day of the reporting period by the number of registered users as of the last day of the reporting period. We believe RPU provides important information about our ability to grow the number of software products adopted by new clients over time, as well as our ability to expand the number of software products that our existing clients add to their contracts with us over time. Comparison of Three Months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change (in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Revenues $ 97,835 $ 76,127 $ 21,708 28.5 % March 31, 2025 2024 Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) $ 403,885 $ 302,659 $ 101,226 33.4 % Registered Users 20,461 18,113 2,348 13.0 % Revenue per Registered User (RPU) $ 19.74 $ 16.71 $ 3.03 18.1 % Revenues increased $21.7 million, or 28.5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. The increase of $21.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to registered user growth of 2.3 million when compared to March 31, 2024, comprised of 1.3 million in registered user growth from existing clients and 1.2 million in registered users from new clients implemented through our digital banking platform (contractual minimums), net of attrition of 0.2 million. In addition, increased revenues were due to RPU growth of 18.1% when compared to March 31, 2024. RPU growth was primarily driven by cross-sell activity to existing clients and higher average RPU of new clients implemented on our digital banking platform compared to aggregate RPU. The average RPU of users from new clients implemented on our digital platform in the last 12 months of $20.15 as of March 31, 2025, is 2.1% higher than the aggregate RPU as of March 31, 2025. The revenue contribution from the MANTL acquisition was $1.4 million. Cost of Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change (in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Cost of revenues $ 40,075 $ 32,095 $ 7,980 24.9% Percentage of revenues 41.0 % 42.2 % (1.2)% (2.8)% Cost of revenues increased $8.0 million, or 24.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. Our revenue growth outpaced our cost of revenues growth, leading to an improved gross margin of 59.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to a gross margin of 57.8% for the same period in 2024. The increase in cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily driven by $3.8 million in higher costs of our third-party partners where we resell their solutions as part of the digital platform, a $3.2 million increase in personnel-related costs (which includes stock-based compensation of $1.5 million, of which $1.0 million was related to certain unvested equity awards settled in cash in conjunction with the acquisition of MANTL), a $0.5 million increase in amortization of intangible assets, primarily related to the acquisition of MANTL, $0.2 million in higher hosting costs, and net other miscellaneous costs of $0.3 million. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % ($ in thousands) Research and development $ 26,885 $ 22,820 $ 4,065 17.8 % Sales and marketing 17,899 13,843 4,056 29.3 % General and administrative 23,771 19,315 4,456 23.1 % Acquisition-related expenses 2,378 60 2,318 % Amortization of acquired intangibles 568 359 209 58.2 % Loss on impairment of intangible assets 1,655 1,655 100.0 % Total operating expenses $ 73,156 $ 56,397 $ 16,759 29.7 % Percentage of revenues 74.8 % 74.1 % Research and Development Research and development expenses increased $4.1 million, or 17.8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the increase was primarily due to a $2.5 million increase in personnel-related costs (which includes stock-based compensation of $1.4 million, of which $1.0 million was related to certain unvested equity awards settled in cash in conjunction with the acquisition of MANTL), resulting from headcount growth in our engineering, information technology and product teams dedicated to platform enhancements and innovation, $1.1 million in higher consulting costs, $0.5 million in higher hosting costs, and net other miscellaneous costs of $0.5 million. These expenses were partially offset by an increase of $0.4 million in capitalized development costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased $4.1 million, or 29.3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the increase was primarily due to a $2.8 million increase in personnel-related costs (which includes stock-based compensation of $0.8 million, of which $0.3 million was related to certain unvested equity awards settled in cash in conjunction with the acquisition of MANTL), resulting from headcount growth in our sales and marketing teams. In addition, we incurred $1.2 million in higher costs related to industry conferences and trade shows, including enhanced client experiences at our in-person client conference, Co:lab. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $4.5 million, or 23.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the increase was primarily due to a $4.0 million increase in personnel-related costs (which includes stock-based compensation of $2.7 million, of which $1.6 million was related to certain unvested equity awards settled in cash in conjunction with the acquisition of MANTL), $0.4 million of higher software costs, and $0.1 million in higher various other net costs. Acquisition-Related Expenses Acquisition-related expenses was $2.4 million for the three ended March 31, 2025, primarily related to insurance, legal, consulting, and professional fees incurred for the acquisition of MANTL. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles was $0.6 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Loss on Impairment of Intangible Assets Loss on impairment of intangible assets was $1.7 million related to impairment of certain historical developed technology intangible assets, customer relationship intangible assets, and capitalized developed software assets (included in property and equipment, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheets) as a result of the acquisition of MANTL. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net Non-operating income decreased by $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the decrease was primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in net interest income. (Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $7.3 million and income tax expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, resulting in an effective tax rate of 48.2% and (1.7)%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 differ from the statutory tax rate primarily due to the impact of the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets and state tax expense, offset by a deferred tax benefit attributable to the partial release of the Companys pre-existing valuation allowance related to the MANTL business combination. The acquisition of MANTL resulted in the recognition of a net deferred tax liability of $8.8 million. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Prior to the business combination, MANTL had a full valuation allowance on its net deferred tax assets. The net deferred tax liability generated from the business combination is considered an additional source of income to support the realizability of the Companys pre-existing deferred tax assets. As a result, the Company released a portion of the pre-existing valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets and recorded a provisional deferred tax benefit of $8.4 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, we had $95.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and an accumulated deficit of $484.0 million. Our net losses have been driven by our investments in developing our digital banking platform, expanding our sales, marketing and implementation organizations and scaling our administrative functions to support our rapid growth. We funded the acquisition of MANTL through the issuance of the 2030 Convertible Notes, borrowings on our Revolving Facility, and cash from our balance sheet. We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from the sale of SaaS subscription services. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including revenue growth and costs incurred to support client usage and growth in our client base, increased research and development expenses to support the growth of our business and related infrastructure, increased general and administrative expenses associated with being a publicly traded company, investments in office facilities and other capital expenditure requirements and any potential future acquisitions or other strategic transactions. We believe that our existing cash resources, including our Amended Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to finance our continued operations, growth strategy, planned capital expenditures and the additional expenses we expect to incur as a public company for the short term (at least the next 12 months) and longer term (beyond the next 12 months). We may, from time to time, seek to raise additional capital to support our growth, including fund acquisitions, as we did with the issuance of the 2030 Convertible Notes to fund, in part, the acquisition of MANTL. Any equity financing we may undertake could be dilutive to our existing stockholders, and any additional debt financing we may undertake could require debt service and financial and operational requirements that could adversely affect our business. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (5,664) $ 951 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (389,413) $ 6,808 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 362,378 $ (4,507) Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in operating activities was $5.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $7.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $12.8 million and net cash outflows from the change in net operating assets and liabilities of $10.6 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization expense of $3.4 million, stock-based compensation expense of $16.1 million (exclusive of $3.9 million of stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards settled in cash related to MANTL acquisition), and loss on impairment of intangible assets of $1.7 million, partially offset by deferred taxes of $8.3 million and net other non-cash charges of $0.1 million. The net cash outflows from the change in our net operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $6.6 million increase in accounts receivable, a $5.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (inclusive of $3.0 million of prepaid stock-based compensation related to the acquisition of MANTL), a $2.0 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and a $0.2 million increase in deferred costs, partially offset by a $3.5 million increase in deferred revenues. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million, which consisted of a net loss of $11.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $15.8 million and net cash outflows from the change in net operating assets and liabilities of $3.4 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization expense of $2.6 million and stock-based compensation expense of $13.6 million, partially offset by accrued interest on marketable securities, net of $0.3 million and a gain on financial instruments of $0.1 million. The net cash outflows from the change in our net operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $0.2 million increase in accounts receivable, a $1.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $3.9 million and an increase in deferred costs of $1.3 million, partially offset by an increase of $3.7 million in deferred revenues. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities was $389.4 million, primarily consisting of $375.5 million related to our acquisition of MANTL, $21.9 million in purchases of marketable securities, $1.4 million related to capitalized software development costs and $0.5 million related to capital expenditures related to updates for computers and other equipment, partially offset by $9.9 million in proceeds from sales, maturities, and redemptions of marketable securities. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $6.8 million, primarily consisting of $15.6 million in proceeds from maturities and redemptions of marketable securities, partially offset by $7.1 million in purchases of marketable securities, $1.4 million related to capitalized software development costs and $0.3 million related to capital expenditures related to updates for computer and other equipment. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by financing activities was $362.4 million, which was primarily due to proceeds of $335.5 million from issuance of convertible senior notes, proceeds of $60.0 million from revolver loan borrowings, $1.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options to purchase 0.2 million shares of our common stock, partially offset by $33.9 million paid for the Capped Calls and $0.8 million of debt issuance costs paid. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $4.5 million, which was primarily due to payments for taxes related to net settlement of equity awards of $5.7 million, partially offset by proceeds of $1.2 million from the exercise of stock options to purchase 0.3 million shares of our common stock. Debt Transactions On February 27, 2025, the Company entered into a Third Amendment (the Third Amendment) to the Companys Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2022 (as amended, the Amended Credit Agreement), with Silicon Valley Bank, a division of First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, as administrative agent, and other lenders party thereto. The Company had borrowings of $60 million on the revolving loan during March 2025, with the proceeds used for the acquisition of MANTL, which remained outstanding as of March 31, 2025. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement. On March 13, 2025, the Company issued $345 million principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes due March 15, 2030 (the 2030 Convertible Notes or Notes). The Notes were issued pursuant to, and are governed by, an indenture (the Indenture), dated as of March 13, 2025, between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the Trustee). In connection with the issuance of the 2030 Convertible Notes, the Company entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain financial institutions pursuant to capped call confirmations (collectively the Capped Calls). Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the 2030 Convertible Notes and Capped Calls. Total interest expense, including commitment fees and unused line fees, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was $0.8 million and $0.1 million respectively. Interest expense related to the 2030 Convertible Notes and revolving loan was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2025. In conjunction with closing the Amended Credit Agreement in 2022, First Amendment in 2023, Second Amendment in 2024, and Third Amendment in March 2025, we incurred issuance costs of $0.9 million, $0.3 million, $0.4 million, and $0.9 million, respectively, which were deferred and were scheduled to be amortized over the remaining term of the agreement. In conjunction with the issuance of the 2030 Convertible Notes the Company recognized an original issue discount of $9.5 million and debt issuance costs of $0.9 million which were capitalized as components of the carrying amount and included in Convertible senior notes, net within the condensed consolidated balance sheets. See Note 8 to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs totaled $11.2 million and $0.5 million as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. Amortization expense related to unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs (included in interest expense within the condensed consolidated statements of operations) totaled $0.2 million and less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2025, compared to those discussed as of December 31, 2024 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2025. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the period presented, we did not have, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates In preparing our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we must make decisions that impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In reaching such decisions, we apply judgments based on our understanding and analysis of relevant circumstances, historical experience, and actuarial valuations. Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2025. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and future application of accounting standards.