Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: downturns or volatility in general economic conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in the automotive market; our ability to compete effectively, expand our market share and increase our net sales and profitability; our ability to compensate for decreases in average selling prices of our products; the cyclical nature of the analog semiconductor industry; shifts in our product mix or customer mix, which could negatively impact our gross margin; our ability to manage any sustained yield problems or other delays at our third-party wafer fabrication facilities or in the final assembly and test of our products; any disruptions at our primary third-party wafer fabrication facilities; our ability to fully realize the benefits of past and potential future initiatives designed to improve our competitiveness, growth and profitability; our ability to accurately predict our quarterly net sales and operating results; our ability to adjust our supply chain volume to account for changing market conditions and customer demand; our reliance on a limited number of third-party wafer fabrication facilities and suppliers of other materials; our dependence on manufacturing operations in the Philippines; our reliance on distributors to generate sales; our indebtedness may limit our flexibility to operate our business; the loss of one or more significant end customers; our ability to develop new product features or new products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our ability to meet customers quality requirements; uncertainties related to the design win process and our ability to recover design and development expenses and to generate timely or sufficient net sales or margins; changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions; our exposures to warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls; our ability to protect our proprietary technology and inventions through patents or trade secrets; our ability to commercialize our products without infringing third-party intellectual property rights; 2 disruptions or breaches of our information technology systems; risks related to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, including privacy, data protection, information security, consumer protection, environmental and occupational health and safety, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, and trade controls; our dependence on international customers and operations; the availability of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives on end-user demands for certain products; the volatility of currency exchange rates; risks related to acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products or technologies, joint ventures and other strategic transactions; our ability to raise capital to support our growth strategy; our ability to effectively manage our growth and to retain key and highly skilled personnel; changes in tax rates or the adoption of new tax legislation; risks related to litigation, including securities class action litigation; and our ability to accurately estimate market opportunity and growth forecasts. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors and uncertainties. You should read this Annual Report and the documents that we reference in this Annual Report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of any new information, future events or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, our, the Company and Allegro refer to the operations of Allegro MicroSystems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 3 PART I Item 1. Business. Our Mission Our mission is to be a global leader in semiconductor sensing and power solutions for motion control and energy-efficient systems in automotive and industrial applications, moving the world to a safer and more sustainable future. Company Overview The Company is a leading global designer, developer, fabless manufacturer and marketer of sensor integrated circuits (ICs) and application-specific analog power ICs enabling critical technologies in the automotive and industrial markets. We are a leading supplier of power ICs and a market share leader in magnetic sensor ICs driven by our market leadership in the automotive market. Our products are foundational to automotive and industrial electronic systems. Our sensor ICs enable our customers to precisely measure motion, speed, position and current, while our power ICs include high-temperature and high-voltage capable motor driver, power management and light emitting diode (LED) driver ICs. Our recently acquired photonics portfolio provides eye-safe distance measurement and 3D imaging solutions. We believe that our technology expertise combined with our deep applications knowledge and strong customer relationships enable us to develop solutions that provide more value to customers than typical ICs. Our solutions are more highly integrated, more intelligent and sophisticated for complex applications are easier for customers to use. Growth in the global semiconductor industry has traditionally been driven by the consumer market. Looking ahead, industry growth is expected to be driven by technology mega trends in the automotive and industrial markets. These mega trends have created requirements for new technologies in vehicles, both under the hood and in the cabin, to support vehicle electrification and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). These shifts also require technology to enable intelligence and automation in factories and to enable energy efficiency in data centers and green energy applications. According to industry experts, these mega trends are expected to dramatically increase the demand for sensing and power solutions like the ones we develop. We believe our patented portfolio of sensor and power ICs and photonics components provide the underlying technology required to establish an early lead in the market and win in the presence of larger competitors. Our longstanding history of innovation over multiple economic and technology cycles in the semiconductor industry is built on our market leading magnetic sensor IC technology. Our first of its kind approach took the complexity of magnetic systems design and embedded it within our solutions, dramatically simplifying the customers design effort while increasing system reliability. This is a pattern we have repeated over consecutive generations of products, enabling us to establish a strong presence in the most rigorous and demanding automotive markets. Our portfolio now includes more than 1,000 products, and we ship over one billion units annually to more than 10,000 customers worldwide. By developing sophisticated, analog mixed-signal IC solutions that incorporate our patented intellectual property, proprietary and robust process technologies and our unique packaging know-how, we believe we are well-positioned to compete across all of our target markets. Our established position as an incumbent supplier for the automotive market and our long product life cycles attest to the strength of this competitive advantage. Our value proposition is based on providing complete IC solutions that sense, regulate and drive a variety of mechanical systems. This includes sensing angular or linear position, driving an electric motor or actuator, and regulating the power applied to sensing and driving circuits so they operate safely and efficiently. These capabilities are based on fundamental technical advances we have made in the field of Hall-effect and xMR magnetic sensors and BCD power ICs. We continue to be instrumental in developing Hall-effect and magnetoresistive transducers (xMR) and power DMOS devices on silicon, application-optimized packaging, high-temperature operation, high-speed precision signal paths for signal processing, and 100-volt (100V) capable Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS (BCD) wafer technology. Our photonics portfolio of ultra-miniature lasers and highly sensitive photodetectors relies on proprietary wafer and packaging technologies. In Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV), Electric Vehicles (EV) and ADAS applications, these innovations translate to increased driving range for an electric vehicle, smaller and more reliable power conversion systems, improved safety and efficiency of motor and power management systems and safer and more reliable autonomous driving through long-range object detection. In the industrial market, these technologies enable the automation at the heart of the industrial transformation commonly referred to as Industry 4.0. These innovations also improve reliability to avoid factory downtime, accurately measure current to support increased energy efficiency for high-density data centers and green energy applications and reduce the solution footprint to lower total system cost. We have maintained our sensor IC leadership and built our emerging power IC business through successfully developing deep customer relationships over time. We commonly collaborate with customers early on over a multi-year 4 period in order to design products capable of meeting demanding performance and quality requirements. Through this customer collaboration in product design, we believe we have unique insight into market trends and customer requirements for new, improved and innovative products. We believe that these insights enable us to develop differentiated solutions, often in advance of our competitors. Our customer list includes virtually all of the worlds top automotive and industrial companies. We are a preferred vendor to tier-one suppliers in the automotive industry that supply parts or systems directly to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Our products can be found in vehicles built by nearly every automotive OEM worldwide and in many common industrial systems. We support customers through design and application centers located in North America, South America, Asia and Europe. Our local teams in these centers work closely with our customers on their unique design requirements, often acting as an extension of a customers development team. Beginning in 2016, we began a multi-year strategic transition to extend our market leadership in high-growth markets, improve our operating model through a fabless and asset-lite manufacturing strategy, increase our IC design footprint and capacity, and accelerate growth through enhanced sales operations. To date, we believe we have begun to successfully realize many of the key objectives of this transition, and we expect to continue to benefit from measures put in place to further enhance our competitiveness, growth and profitability. As part of our strategic transformation, we began to streamline manufacturing to reduce fixed costs. This resulted in the recent divestiture of our wafer manufacturing facility, Polar Semiconductor, LLC (PSL) (see The PSL Divestiture below), and the closure of our manufacturing facility in Thailand (the AMTC Facility) as of March 2021. In our current fabless, asset-lite manufacturing model, we use external wafer manufacturing consisting of both standard and proprietary processes, along with internal and external assembly and test capabilities to provide both flexibility and scale. Through our subcontractor manufacturers, we are able to employ our proprietary wafer fabrication processes while leveraging our subcontractors manufacturing technologies and high-volume capacity. Our use of both internal and external assembly and test capabilities is designed to balance the protection of our proprietary technology and processes while achieving automotive quality manufacturing at scale. Our Market Within the global semiconductor industry, we focus on the magnetic sensor, power management IC and photonic Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) markets. Powertrain Markets We are a leading provider of sensing and power solutions for vehicle electrification, building on our decades of experience in powertrain efficiency and performance leadership in technologies that reduce emissions. The ability to improve efficiency is critical as OEMs strive to comply with increasingly stringent regulations and heightened customer awareness of the environmental impact of high emissions. As xEVs become a meaningful share of the automotive market, OEMs face challenges and opportunities to change system architectures in order to reduce complexities while achieving optimal system efficiency and vehicle range. This presents a number of new socket opportunities for semiconductors, and we expect our content per vehicle will continue to increase, driven by research and development innovation to serve this high-growth market. For example, we estimate that magnetic sensor IC content alone increases by more than 45% from an internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle to an xEV. Because the combination of an internal combustion engine and an electric powertrain balances efficiency and cost, production of vehicles that have both ICE and an electric powertrain are expected to represent the majority of xEV shipments through 2030. As a proven and experienced supplier of ICE powertrain ICs that support engine efficiency, and as an expert in delivering ICs supporting power efficiency in HEV and electric vehicles, we believe we are uniquely positioned to support the intersection of ICE and electric powertrains, providing the critical automotive-grade components required to enable energy efficient and cost-effective hybrid vehicles. We believe this allows us to take advantage of the significant semiconductor content increases expected to result from the xEV migration. ADAS and Autonomous Vehicles Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) capabilities are considered some of the most desirable features in modern vehicles and are already being adopted in vehicles worldwide. Industry experts expect ADAS feature adoption will continue to increase over time. ADAS is a precursor to fully autonomous vehicles, and as ADAS features become more sophisticated, and adoption increases, demand for our sensor and power ICs is expected to expand from steering into additional braking and new radar and LiDAR applications. Based on industry forecasts, we believe the transition to vehicles 5 that incorporate ADAS level 2 through 5 technologies and strong adoption of sensors and power management products to support these vehicles will enable us to increase our total available market related to ADAS and related Safety & Chassis technologies. Our devices play a key role in advanced driver assistance systems, which have three main functions: sense, think and act. Our solutions today address the critical act function, for example, reacting to system inputs to enable collision avoidance, lane keeping, or self-park features through automatic steering and braking. A steering system equipped with even a modest degree of automation utilizes products across our entire portfolio, including sensors, power management ICs and motor driver ICs, which we believe is indicative of the size of our potential market opportunity as ADAS applications become increasingly more sophisticated. Our new portfolio of photonic and 3D sensing devices, through our recent acquisition of Voxtel, Inc. (Voxtel), addresses the sense opportunity in ADAS systems. Our newly acquired LiDAR components, which include ultra-miniature lasers, photodetectors and custom integrated circuits, focus on eye-safe technology that provides high-accuracy distance measurements used to generate 3D LiDAR images required for object detection and avoidance when driving at highway speeds. While the market is still in the early stages of adopting new ADAS technologies, we already ship more than 100 million devices every year that enable fundamental safety and drive features in ADAS applications. We believe our track record of supplying devices for safety applications and experience reliably supporting ADAS features in high-end vehicles, combined with increased penetration of ADAS as it scales from luxury vehicles to mainstream and economy vehicles, positions us to expand our early lead in this rapidly growing opportunity. Data Center and Communications Infrastructure Exponential growth of internet traffic, proliferation of connected devices and global demand for cloud computing services have been driving rapid growth in data center and communications infrastructure spending. A key challenge faced by data center operators is power management. Continued growth of data center buildouts requires advanced cooling and efficient power delivery technologies. This has led to increased demand for energy management technologies that reduce cooling costs and improve operational efficiency. Our single chip, small form factor motor driver ICs reduce the size and increase the efficiency of 3-phase fans used to cool the latest generation of servers. Our lossless current sensor ICs are used to improve the efficiency of server power supplies. Our 100V BCD wafer process technology and galvanically isolated current sensors are uniquely suited for higher voltage operation and therefore, we believe our motor driver and current sensor ICs will gain market share as data centers convert to 48-volt operating voltages. Smart Factories and Energy Efficiency The advent of Industry 4.0, increasing demand for renewable energy and the adoption of green technologies represent additional meaningful growth opportunities for us. We believe we can leverage our technology leadership in solutions optimized for high-temperature, high-voltage, high-reliability conditions to expand our presence in these markets. In particular, we believe we have the potential to leverage the synergy between our power and sensor solutions, including motor drivers, voltage regulators, display drivers, and current, position and speed sensors, into under-penetrated opportunities within industrial automation, and personal mobility, as well as green energy opportunities including renewable energy applications, like solar. Market Share Expansion Within our target markets, a key element of our growth strategy is to increase share through portfolio and customer expansion. We are a market share leader in the magnetic sensor IC market and believe there is still considerable runway to expand our share and continue to grow this foundational business. For example, over the last five years we introduced new position sensor ICs and quickly ramped revenue in motor control applications, particularly in the ADAS market. We believe similar share growth opportunities exist in other adjacent areas of the magnetic sensor IC market. We are also just beginning to leverage our power IC products to increase our total content within automotive and industrial applications. For example, over the last five years we introduced new power devices, including motor driver ICs, and ramped revenue in the automotive ADAS and data center markets. Our revenue in these new areas has grown approximately 50% faster than the overall growth of the brushless direct current (BLDC) motor market during the same period. We believe this is indicative of the early success of our footprint expansion strategy and the potential for significant share gains with continued execution on that strategy. 6 Increasing our Served Available Market Another focus of our growth strategy is to significantly expand our served available market by using our established position in high-value automotive and industrial applications to increase our content per system. We believe the automotive market is very attractive given the rigorous quality and safety requirements that create meaningful challenges for new competitors and the significant technology shifts currently underway that are expected to significantly increase semiconductor content per vehicle. With the growth of semiconductor content opportunities related to xEV and ADAS penetration already accelerating, we have seen significant increases in our electronic system content per vehicle. For example: We average nine devices per vehicle, with as many as 80 devices in a high-end, luxury vehicle adopting early ADAS features. We believe the rapid increase in adoption of ADAS features will result in a similar increase in our average number of devices per vehicle as those features move into mid and lower-range vehicles. In addition, in a popular mid-sized 2020 model sport utility vehicle shipped worldwide, our content per vehicle increased by over 40% as the vehicle model transitioned from ICE to a battery EV. According to our internal estimates and third-party sources, in a standard ICE model we believe we have a total opportunity of $37 increasing up to $59 of potential content in xEV vehicles. Furthermore, in a mainstream North American pickup truck platform, our content per vehicle nearly tripled from 2017 to 2020 as a result of design wins for our solutions that enable smarter systems for self-park, lane assist and other related ADAS features. There is a similar dynamic in the industrial market, where Industry 4.0, the equivalent of the Internet of Things for the factory, is revolutionizing how factories and factory equipment are designed and deployed, and the need for motor and motion control technology that is reliable and energy efficient has dramatically increased. We believe new content opportunities exist in the markets for BLDC motors and motion sensors, where we believe our technology and performance reliability make us uniquely capable of delivering on customer expectations. In addition, as edge devices become more intelligent, they require additional sensing, motor control and power regulation. Competitive Strengths The semiconductor market is highly competitive. As a leader in sensor and power ICs, we have a strong track record of winning against both established competitors and new entrants. We believe that by effectively navigating technology transitions, maintaining close customer relationships and anticipating market trends, we have established a leadership position in the automotive market and are rapidly gaining share in our targeted industrial markets, including factory automation, data center and green energy. Our research and development investment strategy prioritizes directing our internal investment resources toward high-value, high-growth opportunities where we believe we can apply our competitive strengths to establish a leading position and defend that position over successive product generations. Our competitive strengths include the following: Leading market positions We are a market share leader in magnetic sensor ICs. We believe that we can continue to increase our share and that our strong market presence and continued innovation in proprietary sensor and power IC technologies will enable us to establish leadership positions for new products in existing and emerging applications. For example, as a result of our sensor IC leadership in ICE, we have been able to establish an early footprint in the emerging HEV and EV market and in advanced driver assistance systems. Growth in electronics in these applications is outpacing total vehicle growth and contributing significantly to the increasing semiconductor content per vehicle. As a proven automotive supplier, with high application content per vehicle in internal combustion and comfort systems, we have established an early position in these high-growth ADAS and xEV applications that we believe will result in a substantial increase in our content per vehicle progressively over the next decade. Our average product life cycle is ten years or more and we believe that product longevity and our ability to compete in our target markets will enable sustained market share gains over a long period. Established technology leadership, strong intellectual property and system-level expertise We believe our technology leadership is based on our strong intellectual property portfolio in analog mixed-signal circuit design, our sensor and power IC process technology innovations, and our intelligent packaging expertise. Additionally, we believe our system-level knowledge resulting from close customer collaboration enables us to understand our customers specific system requirements and more quickly and effectively develop advanced solutions to meet their 7 needs. For example, our innovations in Hall-effect and xMR sensor ICs include assemblies with integrated magnets and optimized silicon design to enable precise robust performance in high-temperature and high-voltage environments. To date, we believe that our competitors have not been able to duplicate the resulting performance advantage. We have expanded innovations in the field of magnetic sensor ICs to the power IC market, where our solutions are developed using our proprietary 100V-capable wafer technology, which enables the efficient integration of various power circuits and proprietary motor control algorithms into one small form factor device. This reduces the solution footprint, increases system efficiency and simplifies our customers motor design process, all of which represent key customer requirements. In our newly acquired photonics portfolio our ultra-miniature lasers provide an eye-safe, long-range light source that can be detected by our proprietary Indium Gallium Arsenide (InGaAs) photodiodes that are tightly coupled to our high accuracy, high speed, silicon read out integrated circuits (ROICs). We believe these innovations have created tangible performance benefits in a variety of customer end products across a broad range of applications, from traditional 12-volt internal combustion engines to 48-volt mild hybrid vehicles, autonomous vehicles, and from industrial robotics to server and data center hardware. Broadly diversified business focused on high value customers and end markets Given the breadth of our customer relationships worldwide, our net sales are diversified across automotive and industrial customers, sales channels and geographies. We believe this diversity contributes to our growth opportunity by providing us early access to emerging customer applications and helping us to maintain relative stability in net sales across the business cycles common to the semiconductor industry. During the most recent global recession in 2008, and now during the current COVID-19 pandemic, our regional and target market diversification enabled us to partially offset regional or customer demand weakness. For example, recently, our presence in growing, high content electric vehicle systems has helped offset reductions in automotive production generally, and we have been able to capitalize on work-from-home related demand for data center infrastructure and printers despite underlying general market weakness due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Diversification, particularly geographically and within the automotive industry, has enabled us to continue to invest across business cycles, pursue multiple growth opportunities and employ our research and development efforts and technology expertise across multiple products and end markets. Additionally, we believe no end customer, including those served through our distributors, exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal years 2021 and 2020 . Unlike the consumer market, automotive and industrial markets are characterized by long design cycles and rigorous quality, reliability and safety testing. These end markets often support higher relative average sales prices (ASPs) for similar technologies and longer product lifecycles. In addition, for many of our customers, we are among a limited number of suppliers qualified to compete for next generation product designs, and in many of our design wins, we are the sole supplier to the customer. This strong competitive position allows us to gain insight into the specifications for our customers evolving products and enables us to develop innovative solutions to meet their needs, providing us with multiple opportunities to secure continued business. In addition, our customer diversity and longstanding track record with key customers, particularly in the automotive market, provides us with a deep channel into which we can introduce new products. As a result, based on our internal metrics, we believe we have sharp visibility into, and understanding of, long-term revenue trends. Fabless, asset-lite, scalable operations with flexible, advanced manufacturing infrastructure Over the course of our multi-year strategic transformation, including our completion of the PSL Divestiture in March 2020, we became a fabless semiconductor company, while retaining certain ownership rights in and a strategic customer relationship with PSL to enhance our security of supply. This has contributed to improving our historical gross margins over the last four years from the 40% range to the 50% range today. Becoming a fabless semiconductor company will also enable us to access the technology base available through partnerships with strategic contract semiconductor wafer fabrication plants (fabs) to which we bring our advanced proprietary processes. Wafers using our proprietary fabrication processes are very often manufactured at multiple wafer foundries, sometimes on dedicated customized tools. We believe this strategy will provide us with enhanced security of supply. Our major fab partners currently include PSL, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC). We believe that we have developed a flexible and efficient manufacturing model that will continue to reduce our capital requirements, lower our operating costs, enhance reliability of supply and support our continued growth in future periods. We have successfully reduced our manufacturing footprint by approximately half over the last three years as we optimized our manufacturing capabilities in packaging through a mix of internal and external capacity. In addition, the closure of the AMTC Facility as of March 2021 reduced our remaining manufacturing square footage by approximately an additional 45%. In addition to the implementation of our fabless, asset-light scalable manufacturing strategy, we believe the AMTC Facility closure as part of our manufacturing footprint optimization strategy will further enhance our gross margins in both the near term and in future periods. Our primary internal assembly and test facility based in Manila, Philippines (the 8 AMPI Facility) provides high-volume production capacity while facilitating the protection of our proprietary process technology, particularly for the assembly and testing of our magnetic sensor products. Additionally, we make use of other third-party assembly and second-source manufacturers for industry standard packaging. We are certified under IATF 16949:2016, the automotive sector-specific quality management system standard, and are a major supplier to Japanese automotive manufacturers, who are recognized industry-wide as having very stringent quality standards with respect to safety and reliability. We also have qualified and use external assembly and test facilities to enable flexible capacity utilization and technology access. Well-positioned to access the Japan markets Japan remains a very important geographic market for automotive and industrial suppliers and has historically been difficult to penetrate for companies headquartered outside of Japan. We have developed direct end customer relationships with market leading tier-one suppliers and now have an extensive sales, distribution, technical and quality support network in Japan. Through our Japan business development and technical center, we are well-positioned to directly market to and support Japanese manufacturers key development projects. We believe we are well-positioned to expand our business in Japan, particularly in the automotive and industrial automation markets. Relationships with leading Japanese customers are particularly valuable since the solutions created for these customers are often quickly adopted by other manufacturers outside of Japan. Experienced and established management team Our executive management team averages over 20 years of semiconductor industry experience. We believe our team has a proven track record of operating in fast-paced, innovation-driven and values-based cultures. Our management team is committed to innovating with purpose, supporting sustainability and managing with transparency. After over 30 years with Allegro, Ravi Vig became our President and Chief Executive Officer in 2016. During his career with us, Mr. Vig has spearheaded significant advanced technology projects, moving up through the engineering ranks to ultimately lead our magnetic sensor business where we now hold the leading market position. Under Mr. Vigs leadership, we have undertaken a strategic transformation that includes initiatives to streamline operations, improve sales effectiveness and focus our research and development efforts with the ultimate goal of profitably accelerating growth. We believe that our executive management teams ability to successfully execute on our recent strategic transformation demonstrates their strong capabilities. Additionally, their experience effectively managing through various industry cycles and technology transitions provides us with steady, reliable leadership, uniquely capable of identifying strong investments, executing through changes and maintaining stability during periods of market uncertainty. Company Strategy Our strategy is to provide complete IC solutions for our customers, innovate with purpose to build on leadership in our key markets and expand our presence to become a global leader in semiconductor power and sensing solutions for motion control and energy efficient systems in automotive and industrial applications. Invest in research and development that is market-aligned and focused on targeted portfolio expansion We believe that our investments in research and development in the areas of product design, automotive-grade wafer fabrication technology and IC packaging development are critical to maintaining our competitive advantage. In both the automotive and industrial markets, major technology shifts driven by disruptive technologies are creating high-growth opportunities in areas such as xEVs, ADAS, Industry 4.0, data centers and green energy applications. We believe the convergence of requirements for intelligence and energy efficiency within these emerging markets is directly aligned with our core competencies. Our knowledge of customers end systems has driven an expansion of our sensor IC and power solutions to enable these new technologies. By aligning our research and development investments with disruptive technology trends while undergoing a rigorous ROI review, we believe we can deliver an attractive combination of growth and profitability. Emphasize our automotive first philosophy to align our product development with the most rigorous applications and safety standards We are a leading supplier of magnetic sensor ICs for the automotive market because we have been intentional about incorporating support for the stringent automotive operating voltages, temperature ranges and safety and reliability standards into every part of our operations, from design to manufacturing. By designing our products from the ground up to operate at high temperatures and at high voltages, we have built a strong technical reputation among our automotive customers. We believe our focus on meeting or exceeding industry standards as the baseline for product development increases our 9 opportunity in the automotive market as customers look for trusted suppliers to deliver highly reliable solutions for rapidly growing emerging markets. For example, the rise in HEVs and EVs has dramatically increased the variety and complexity of components needed to support modern powertrains. We believe our philosophy of designing for automotive safety and reliability gives us a meaningful lead over new entrants attempting to enter the automotive market by modifying existing solutions originally developed for consumer and other less demanding applications. For example, we will apply this philosophy of innovation, quality and reliability to our new photonics portfolio which supplies components into safety-critical LiDAR applications. We also believe we can use our expertise in designing for the automotive market and our expanding product portfolio to capitalize on increasing demand among industrial customers for ruggedized solutions that meet the highest quality and reliability standards. Additionally, in our experience, demand for solutions that meet or exceed stringent safety and reliability specifications supports higher ASPs and lower ASP declines over time than are typical for our industry. Invest to lead in chosen markets and apply our intellectual property and technology to pursue adjacent growth markets We intend to continue to invest in technology advancements and our intellectual property portfolio to maintain the number one market share position in magnetic sensor ICs and achieve leadership positions in power ICs within our target markets. We believe we can maximize our investments by leveraging our proven technology and existing research and development, sales and support efforts to take advantage of synergistic opportunities in new, adjacent growth markets. For example: We target our patented sensor IC, photonics, and power-related intellectual property to address increasing electronics content in automotive applications based on the increasing adoption of electric powertrains and advanced safety systems for semi-autonomous and autonomous vehicles. We are investing in advanced current sensor IC and sensor-less motor control technologies to target industrial solar and data center applications where we believe the trend towards increasing energy efficiency provides an opportunity to apply our rich history of innovation to rapidly gain share and accelerate our growth. We are aligning our application domain knowledge, sensor design skills and power management and motor control algorithm expertise to capitalize on the trend towards increasing automation and electronics content inherent in the Industry 4.0 transformation. We believe our strategy of leveraging our key capabilities to target adjacent growth markets will enable us to achieve higher returns on our research and development investments. Expand our sales channels and enhance our sales operations and customer relationships We sell our products globally through our direct sales force, distributors and independent sales representatives. Our global sales infrastructure is optimized to support customers through a combination of key account managers and regional technical and support centers near customer locations. These centers enable us to act as an extension of our customers design teams, providing us with key insights into product requirements and accelerating the adoption and ramp up of our products in customer designs. We intend to continue strengthening our relationships with our existing customers while also enabling our channel partners to support demand creation and fulfillment for smaller broad-based industrial customers. We believe we will be able to further penetrate the industrial market and efficiently scale our business to accelerate growth by enabling our channel to become an extension of our demand generation and customer support efforts. Continue to improve our gross margins through product innovation and cost optimization We strive to improve our profitability by both rapidly introducing new products with value-added features and reducing our manufacturing costs through our fabless, asset-lite manufacturing model. Over the last four years, we have improved our gross margin from the 40% range historically to the 50% range. We expect to continue to improve our product mix by developing new products for growth markets where we believe we can generate higher ASPs and/or higher gross margins. We also intend to further our relationships with key foundry suppliers to apply our product and applications knowledge to develop differentiated and cost-efficient wafer processes and packages. We believe we can reduce our manufacturing costs by leveraging the advanced manufacturing capabilities of our strategic suppliers, implementing more cost-effective packaging technologies and leveraging both internal and external assembly and test capacity to reduce our capital requirements, lower our operating costs, enhance reliability of supply and support our continued growth. We believe the AMTC Facility closure will further enhance our gross margins in both the near term and in future periods. We intend to continue to choose the industrys leading manufacturing partners to maintain the quality of our products for the automotive market, to ensure continuity of supply and to best protect our intellectual property. 10 Pursue selective acquisitions and other strategic transactions We evaluate and pursue selective acquisitions and transactions to facilitate our entrance into new applications, add to our intellectual property portfolio and design resources, and accelerate our growth. From time to time, we acquire companies, technologies or assets and participate in joint ventures when we believe they will cost effectively and rapidly improve our product development or manufacturing capabilities or complement our existing product offerings. For example, our August 2020 acquisition of Voxtel and its affiliate LadarSystems, Inc. brings together Voxtels laser and imaging expertise with our automotive leadership and scale to enable what we believe will be the next generation of ADAS sensing solutions. Maintain commitment to sustainability We intend to continue to innovate with purpose, addressing critical global challenges related to energy efficiency, vehicle emissions and clean and renewable energy with our sensing and power management product portfolio. In addition, we strive to operate our business in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable manner, and we strive to maintain a commitment to social responsibility in our supply chain and disclosure of the environmental impact of our business operations. Company Products and Solutions Our product portfolio includes over 1,000 products across a range of high-performance analog mixed-signal semiconductors and photonic components. Our magnetic sensor IC, power IC and photonics solutions address three main electronic system functions sense, regulate and drive. We apply our deep technology know-how to deliver: Sensing of speed, position, current and 3D distance imaging to improve vehicle fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions, enable safer cars through object detection (ADAS sense) and collision avoidance (ADAS act), and enhance factory automation and green energy systems; Regulation of systems to improve safety, improve power efficiency and ultimately reduce solution size; and Driving motors through our advanced, proprietary algorithms that provide industry leading reliability and energy efficiency, with minimal audible noise and vibration. Magnetic Sensor ICs We offer what we believe to be the industrys leading portfolio of integrated magnetic sensor ICs. Our solutions are based on our monolithic Hall-effect and xMR technology that allows customers to develop contactless sensor solutions that reduce mechanical wear and provide greater measurement accuracy and system control. Our portfolio of magnetic sensor ICs includes the following: Position Sensor ICs: Position sensor ICs provide an analog or digital voltage output that measures the intensity of a magnetic field, thereby establishing a precise position. In automotive applications, our position sensor ICs are used to improve safety applications such as seatbelt detection, ADAS applications such as advanced power steering and braking systems, ICE powertrain systems such as clutch and fork position in advanced transmissions, and mild HEV powertrain systems such as the shaft position of a starter generator. Speed Sensor ICs: Speed sensor ICs detect and process the magnetic fields created by a rotating gear tooth or ring magnet with the output being a digital reading proportional to speed. These sensor ICs are used in camshaft/crankshaft and transmission systems and employ proprietary algorithms to reduce CO2 emissions and improve fuel economy of combustion engines. Current Sensor ICs: Current sensor ICs provide output signals proportional to the overall strength of a magnetic field created by a current carrying conductor. Current sensor ICs are used to improve energy efficiency in a broad range of applications, from xEV powertrain, industrial motors, and solar inverters to refrigerators and air conditioners. Power ICs Our power IC portfolio is comprised of high-temperature and high-voltage capable motor driver ICs, regulator power management ICs and LED driver ICs, which allow our customers to design safer, smaller and more power-efficient systems. We employ embedded algorithms that simplify system-level design, reduce audible noise, and increase start-up reliability in BLDC motors and fans. Our portfolio of power ICs includes the following: 11 Motor Driver ICs: Motor driver ICs contain the power drivers and the sequencing logic to drive the coils of a variety of motors. Our motor driver ICs utilize embedded algorithms to improve energy efficiency and motion control in HEV and EV systems, automotive fans and pumps, data center cooling fans, robotics and home appliances. Regulator and LED Driver ICs: As the industry transitions to more highly integrated products, our portfolio of regulator ICs, and power management ICs (PMICs) is used extensively in under-hood automotive ADAS and powertrain systems. Our LED driver ICs and modules are used in smart lighting systems to improve system safety, efficiency and size. Photonic and 3D Sensing Components for LiDAR Applications Through our acquisition of Voxtel, we provide photonic and advanced 3D imaging components for use in eye-safe, medium and long-range industrial and automotive LiDAR applications. Our photonic components include high-performance avalanche photodiodes and photodiode arrays, ultra-miniature, eye-safe, diode-pumped solid-state (DPSS) lasers, laser rangefinders, and custom ROICs, such as TOF ICs. Our components operate within the near-infrared and short-wavelength infrared wavelength ranges, including the important eye-safe region around 1550 nanometers, which we believe is an initiative gaining momentum across the industry. Our suite of industry leading, eye-safe technologies provides the photonic foundation for long-range automotive scanned LiDAR (object detection up to 200 meters or more) or medium-range FLASH LiDAR systems. Photodiodes: Our APDs are used in detecting and processing the laser signal in LiDAR applications. Our InGaAs APDs are highly sensitive, enabling images to be obtained at a long distance and wide field of view using an eye-safe laser. Eye-safe Lasers and Rangefinders: Our miniature erbium-glass DPSS lasers allow for eye-safe operation at wavelengths between 1500 and 1600 nm, delivering short, high-energy pulses, with diffraction-limited beam quality and low divergence, allowing for long-distance ranging. Additionally, these lasers are much smaller and more cost efficient than the fiber lasers used in many current LiDAR systems. R eadout Integrated Circuits (ROIC): Our silicon ROICs include low-noise, high speed analog and digital circuits including proprietary analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) and time-to-digital converters (TDCs) required for high performance time-of-flight (TOF) measurements. We tightly integrate our ROICs with our photodiodes using advanced assembly techniques required to achieve accurate distance measurements in LiDAR systems. 12 Examples of our IC products and their applications in end markets are set forth in the following table. Automotive Market IC Solutions Industrial Market IC Solutions Other Market IC Solutions PRODUCTS Current sensors Current sensors Current sensors Position sensors Position sensors Position sensors Speed sensors Speed sensors Motor drivers LED drivers LED drivers Regulators Motor drivers Motor drivers Regulators and PMICs Regulators Photonics and 3D sensing ICs Photonics and 3D sensing ICs APPLICATIONS Engine management and transmission systems Industry 4.0/Factory automation equipment Gaming Electric motor powertrain and charging systems for xEV Industrial motors PC printers and peripherals ADAS, active safety, including steering and braking systems Smart home/IoT Personal electronics Automotive LiDAR Cloud computing/data center Energy Star household appliances including white goods Comfort and convenience including in-cabin motors, HVAC, infotainment, LED lighting Wireless infrastructure Passive safety including seatbelt switches, wipers, door/window sensors, seat position, suspension Personal mobility Green energy applications Industrial LiDAR / Rangefinders Sustainability Efforts We strive to develop intelligent solutions that move the world toward a safer and more sustainable future. Our ICs address global challenges related to CO2 emissions, energy efficiency and clean, renewable energy in a variety of applications, for example: Reduced vehicle emissions and improved fuel economy for internal combustion engines. Our magnetic speed sensor ICs are used in combustion engines to reduce CO2 emissions and improve fuel economy by providing gear speed and position information necessary to improve engine performance. For example, we are a leading provider of specialized crankshaft speed sensor ICs needed to operate the stop/start engine systems designed to reduce emissions through improved efficiency. Our magnetic speed and position sensor ICs, motor driver ICs, and PMICs are used in advanced, high-efficiency vehicle transmissions. These ICs sense the position of gears and clutches, regulate power to the sensors and control electronics, and drive the actuators needed to operate high-efficiency 8 to 10 speed transmissions. Energy efficiency in hybrid and fully electric vehicles. Our lossless magnetic current sensor ICs are used to accurately measure and control electric current flowing in xEV powertrains, improving the energy efficiency of the electric vehicle. In many electric cars, ten to twenty total current sensor ICs are used in vehicle inverter, DC/DC converter, and on-board-charging systems. In addition, our power IC products improve energy efficiency and motion control in mild hybrid cars, where our 100-volt wafer technology is ideal for use when driving 48-volt motors or powering electronics from the internal 48-volt battery. Renewable and smart energy applications. Our magnetic current sensor ICs with embedded high-voltage isolation are used extensively in power conversion and inverter applications in solar and wind energy generation. In addition, our angle sensor ICs and motor driver ICs play a key role in the mechatronic systems used to optimize the alignment 13 between solar panels and the changing position of the sun, for example. Our products also provide a non-intrusive, reliable, high-precision and low-cost way to measure power in power monitoring applications. Energy efficiency in next generation infrastructure . Our power IC products, such as motor driver ICs, are used extensively in data center cooling fan applications. In addition, our magnetic current sensor ICs help improve energy efficiency and minimize energy losses in data center power supplies and power amplifiers in 5G telecom systems. We expect the transition from 12-volt to 48-volt power architectures in data center and 5G telecom markets will continue to require energy-efficient, high-voltage power and sensor IC solutions to achieve necessary levels of energy efficiency. We are committed to a values-based culture that places high importance on running our business in a sustainable and safe manner. We are a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, dedicated to social responsibility in the supply chain. We also actively manage the carbon footprint of our operations and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project to disclose our carbon emissions. We also strive to adhere to international standards and regulations regarding manufacturing and business procedures and product composition. Sales, Marketing and Customer Support We sell our products worldwide through multiple sales channels, including through our direct sales force and through distributors and independent sales representatives, which resell our products to numerous end customers. We have a geographically diverse mix of sales. Our distribution relationship with Sanken in Japan fulfills demand for our products from major Japanese tier-one automotive and industrial manufacturers. Our net sales made to distributors accounted for approximately 37.3% and 25.2% of our net sales in fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively, excluding our distribution relationship with Sanken in Japan, which represented approximately 17.7% and 17.3% of our net sales in fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our direct sales force and applications engineers provide our customers with specialized technical support. We believe that maintaining a close relationship with our customers and serving their specific technical needs improves their level of satisfaction and enables us to anticipate and influence their future product needs. We provide ongoing technical training to our distributor and sales representatives to keep them informed of our existing and new products. We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for increasing our brand awareness and promoting our products to prospective customers. This includes the creative management of our website, market research and analytics, and development of demand generation strategies and materials such as product announcements, press releases, brochures, training and videos, as well as securing thought leadership through published technical and trend articles and advertisements, and active engagement in key industry events. Customers We sell our products to major global OEMs and their key suppliers, primarily in the automotive and industrial markets. We sold to more than 10,000 end customers, directly and through distributors, during each of fiscal year 2021 and 2020. Approximately half of our net sales during each of fiscal ye ars 2021 and 2020, respectively, were derived from sales to our top twenty customers. We believe no end customer, including those served through our distributors, exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Research and Development Strategy We are a technology company and believe that our future success depends on our ability to rapidly develop and introduce differentiated new products in our target markets. As a result, we are committed to investing in our process and product development capabilities and focusing our engineering efforts on designing and introducing new application-specific products, developing new semiconductor process technologies, enhancing design productivity and evaluating new technologies. Our research and development investments are subject to a rigorous ROI review to ensure alignment with our growth and profitability targets. We believe that by effectively applying these resources, we have developed proprietary innovations and intellectual property that will give us an early lead in our target markets and will enable accelerated growth over time. Over the last ten years, we believe we have been instrumental in achieving fundamental developments that have enabled a number of key technology transitions in the automotive and industrial markets. We believe we are one of very few suppliers in the semiconductor industry to integrate proprietary motor control algorithms into our motion control devices to achieve optimized BLDC motor performance, we remain one of the only suppliers that has developed multiple packaging technologies capable of operating up to 175 degrees Celsius and including passive components that simplify customer 14 module assembly, and we were one of the first in our industry to develop automotive grade xMR technology on silicon wafers, which enabled breakthrough advances in product performance. This advanced technology is a key enabler across all of our strategic focus areas in the automotive and industrial markets as more of the automotive safety market transitions to xMR. We augment our internally generated intellectual property through a mix of licensed intellectual property, partnering with industry experts, and through acquisitions. For example, we acquired our photonics portfolio which provides us with advanced laser and photodetector technology. Our global team of highly skilled engineers has extensive semiconductor development experience, including expertise in analog design, test and process technology. As of March 26, 2021, we had approximately 520 employees dedicated to research and development, with centers in the United States, Europe, South America, Japan and India. Our engineering team has contributed to nearly doubling our intellectual property portfolio over the last three years, further strengthening our position in our target markets. We have also made significant investments in our core engineering capabilities, including improvements in tools to support greater engineering efficiency, electrical component modeling, magnetic performance modeling and thermal distribution modeling. We believe these improved tools enable us to more accurately predict the performance of our designs, resulting in improved time-to-market for our products and satisfaction of our customers. Our focus on meeting or exceeding the stringent automotive market safety and reliability requirements is fundamental to our research and development process. We anticipate that we will continue to make research and development investments in order to enhance our leadership position and expand our markets with innovative, high-quality products and services (as exemplified through our acquisition of Voxtel). In addition, our board of directors recently established an R&D committee, whose purpose is to provide guidance to management on various technological choices and research and development priorities to assist in implementing our strategic direction. Process and Packaging Technology Our product and technology development engineers have long-established expertise in designing analog power ICs, magnetic sensor ICs, and photonics components using proprietary semiconductor process technologies and intelligent packaging. We consider these capabilities to be strategically important because they allow us to create complete system products and highly integrated solutions that meet the quality and robustness requirements of our most stringent automotive customers and applications. These have the benefit of advancing the feature, function and cost of ownership of our devices relative to those of our competitors. For example, we recently released a unique 100V- and 175-degree Celsius capable BCD wafer technology designed to handle automotive voltage and temperature transients while also integrating high-density logic circuits and EEPROM memory to enable configurable and embedded algorithms, and various Hall-effect and xMR transducer technology on the same silicon wafer. These technologies are fundamental to the transition from 12-volt to 48-volt power supply required in the rapidly emerging mild HEV and EV markets, and to the next generation of ADAS systems. We are in the process of applying these capabilities to the industrialization of our ultra-miniature lasers and advanced semiconductor photodiodes. In choosing the process technology to be used to manufacture a new product, we seek to optimize the match between the process technology and the desired performance parameters of the product for our customers. Our current strategic semiconductor process innovations include the following: Automotive Quality and Safety We have developed, characterized and qualified our wafer and package technologies to meet or exceed the rigorous automotive requirements that our customers demand. Robust development processes and guidelines have resulted in devices capable of exceeding the requirements of AEC Q100 Automotive Grade 0 of 150 degrees Celsius and our field failure rates are consistent with or better than customer requirements. Integrated Transducers One of our fundamental innovations is the integration of magnetic transducers and CMOS circuitry into one piece of silicon to create a complete, fully integrated system. Hall-effect elements are implanted in silicon providing robust and low noise solutions that are optimized for stress and temperature effects. Thin film, high-resolution xMR transducers are deposited directly on top of the CMOS circuitry creating a more reliable solution than multi-chip solutions by reducing interconnects and solution area. To achieve the highest level of Automotive Safety Integrity Level (ASIL), we are able to 15 integrate xMR and Hall-effect transducers onto the same silicon to produce heterogeneous solutions capable of performing reliably in the most demanding automotive environments. High-Voltage Technology Our intellectual property developed over years of experience in automotive applications includes advanced mixed-signal integration of high-voltage solutions with our high-precision analog designs. For example, our innovative wafer technology enables high voltage power transistors to be combined with embedded digital logic and precision analog circuits on a monolithic motor control IC. This enables a number of application-specific advancements, including taking the complex algorithm development in motor drives into the IC, vastly reducing our customers design complexity and creating the most efficient and quietest solutions in the market. Similar benefits exist for our sensor products through monolithic integration of transducers with precision analog circuits and intelligent signal processing on a high-voltage IC that can be powered from a 12-volt vehicle battery. Advanced, Small Form Factor Integrated Packages We continue to combine circuit design and process innovation with novel packaging solutions that improve performance and reliability while reducing solution footprint and our customers cost of ownership. Two decades of sensor package innovation have led to the development of a family of integrated systems in a package (SiP) for magnetic speed and current sensor ICs as well as power systems. By integrating the magnet and passive components in a single body, we are able to offer inventive magnetic sensors that reduce our customers needs to design complex magnetic models and solve electrical interference issues with external printed circuit boards (PCBs) or custom lead frames. The current sensors integrate specially designed lead frames to allow a high-precision, factory programmed single package solution that provides a unique low loss and high-voltage isolation product and can sense current for products plugged directly into a household electrical outlet. Years of design and manufacturing refinement have led to the latest generation of power products that integrate passive components and power delivery into small packages to reduce PCB footprint and reduce noise in high-power systems. We also believe we are one of only a few companies in our industry that have developed a broad portfolio of packages that are suitable for operation in automotive environments and 175-degree Celsius temperatures. Our ultra-miniature laser modules combine advanced laser diodes and optics in a small form factor that outputs up to 3 millijoules of laser power for flash LiDAR systems. Intellectual Property We consider the strength of our intellectual property portfolio to be a significant competitive advantage. Our intellectual property includes patented inventions, trade secrets, accumulated technical know-how and trademarks. As of March 26, 2021, we o wned 1,117 patents, including 596 active U.S. patents (with expiration dates between 2022 and 2039), with an additional 382 pending patent applications, including 157 U.S. patent applications. We market our products worldwide under the Allegro name. We either hold or have applied for trademarks in all jurisdictions where we do significant business. The PSL Divestiture Through the end of fisc al year 2020, we held a 100% ownership interest in PSL, a semiconductor wafer fabricator engaged in the manufacturing and testing of foundry wafers. Prior to the divestiture transaction of PSL, PSL accounted for 11.1% of our net sales and supplied 44.2% of our wafer requirements in fiscal year 2020, respectively. In addition, through end of fiscal year 2020, we acted as a distributor of Sanken products in North America, South America and Europe on a low-margin, buy-resale basis pursuant to the Sanken Products Distribution Agreement between AML, our wholly owned subsidiary, and Sanken. Our net sales from the distribution of Sanken products in fiscal year 2020 were $35.4 million. On March 28, 2020, in order to further our strategy for developing a flexible and efficient manufacturing model that minimizes capital requirements, lowers operating costs, enhances reliability of supply and supports our growth going forward: We divested a majority of our ownership interest in PSL to Sanken in the PSL Divestiture, in connection with which: Our equity interests in PSL were recapitalized (the Recapitalization) in exchange for (i) the contribution by us to PSL of $15.0 million of intercompany debt, representing a portion of the aggregate principal amount of debt owed by PSL to us under certain intercompany loan agreements (the Existing Allegro Loans), (ii) the assumption by us of $42.7 million in aggregate principal amount of debt owed by PSL to 16 Sanken under certain intercompany loan and line-of-credit agreements (the PSL-Sanken Loans), that was subsequently forgiven in exchange for our transfer to Sanken of 70% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in PSL, and (iii) the termination of the Existing Allegro Loans and the issuance, pursuant to a consolidated and restructured loan agreement (the Consolidated Loan Agreement), of a note payable to us in an aggregate principal amount of $51.4 million (representing the aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding under the Existing Allegro Loans prior to their termination); and In exchange for the extinguishment of all outstanding indebtedness owed by u s to Sanken under the PSL-Sanken Loans, we (i) divested 70% of the issued and outstanding equity interests in PSL to Sanken, as a result of which Sanken holds a 70% majority share in PSL and we hold a 30% interest, and (ii) amended and restated the existing limited liability company agreement of PSL to admit Sanken as a member, reflect the Recapitalization and otherwise reflect the rights and obligations of us and Sanken thereunder; AML entered into an amendment to a wafer foundry agreement, dated as of April 12, 2013, between AML and PSL (as amended, the Wafer Foundry Agreement), pursuant to which AML agreed, among other things, to a minimum wafer purchase obligation by us from PSL during the initial three-year term of the Wafer Foundry Agreement;AML entered into an amendment to a wafer foundry agreement, dated as of April 12, 2013, between AML and PSL (as amended, the Wafer Foundry Agreement), pursuant to which AML agreed, among other things, to a minimum wafer purchase obligation by us from PSL during the initial three-year term of the Wafer Foundry Agreement; AML entered into a letter agreement with PSL pursuant to which AML agreed, among other things, to make a one-time price support payment to PSL of approximately $5.9 million in cash or, at AMLs option, as a reduction of PSLs existing debt obligations under the Consolidated Loan Agreement (such letter agreement, the Price Support Agreement); AML entered into a letter agreement with Sanken providing for, among other things, the termination of AMLs services under the Sanken Products Distribution Agreement (such letter agreement, the Sanken Products Distribution Termination Letter); Sanken and PSL entered into a new distribution agreement providing for, among other things, PSL to serve as a distributor of Sanken products in North America, South America and Europe; We entered into a transition services agreement with PSL and Sanken pursuant to which we agreed, among other things, to provide certain human resources, legal and distribution support services to PSL during the initial transition period following the consummation of the PSL Divestiture on the terms set forth therein (such agreement, the TSA); We entered into an amended and restated transfer pricing agreement with AML, Sanken and PSL pursuant to which, among other things, we are no longer required to make payments to PSL in respect of transfer pricing adjustments; and We entered into certain other agreements with Sanken and PSL. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for high-performance analog mixed-signal semiconductors, is highly competitive. Although no one company competes with us across all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our business areas from both domestic and international semiconductor companies. Our primary magnetic sensor and power IC competitors are other semiconductor design and manufacturers, such as Analog Devices, Infineon, Maxim Integrated, Melexis, Monolithic Power Systems, TDK Micronas, and Texas Instruments. Our ability to compete successfully against these companies depends on elements both within and outside of our control. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we have. These competitive advantages may enable them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, or better position them to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. We believe we can successfully compete against these organizations in our target markets by leveraging our design expertise, market leadership position, proprietary manufacturing processes, custom packaging capabilities and close customer relationships. In addition, we compete in our target markets to varying degrees on the basis of a number of competitive factors, including: time to market; 17 system and application expertise; product quality and reliability; quality systems and support; product features and performance; proprietary technology; production capacity; and solution price. We believe we currently compete favorably with respect to these factors. However, we cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new competitors entering our markets. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to our Business and IndustryWe face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce our market share and decrease our net sales and profitability. Employees and Human Capital Resources Our employees are our most valuable assets. They contribute to Allegros success and, in particular, the skilled and experienced employees within our manufacturing, sales, service, research and development and quality assurance departments are instrumental in driving operational execution and strong financial performance, advancing innovation and maintaining a strong quality and compliance program. As of March 26, 2021, we employed 3,874 full-time employees, including 520 in research and development, 2,964 in manufacturing (the overwhelming majority located at our AMPI facility in the Philippines), 201 in sales and marketing and 189 in general and administrative. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. We have never experienced a labor-related work stoppage. None of our employees is either represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The success and growth of Allegros business is dependent in large part on our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse population of talented and high-performing employees at all levels of our organization. For our research, engineering and production management positions, we require employees with university and graduate-level degrees. As of March 26, 2021, 1,282 of our employees held university and graduate-level degrees, of which 634 of these employees were located outside of our factory locations. Globally, the demand for employees with such levels of education is high and competitive. To succeed in these conditions, Allegro implements key recruitment and retention strategies, objectives and effectiveness measures as part of the overall management of our business. These core strategies are advanced through the following programs, policies and initiatives: Competitive Pay and Benefits . Allegros compensation programs are designed to align the compensation of our employees, who operate in a highly competitive and technologically challenging environment, with Allegros business performance and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior performance. The structure of our compensation programs balances incentive earnings for both short-term and long-term performance. Specifically: We provide employee wages that are competitive and consistent with employees positions, skill levels, experience, knowledge and geographic location. All employees participate in our annual cash bonus program, allowing them to share in the profitability and business performance of Allegro. We also generally provide equity grants and an employee stock purchase plan to salaried employees consistent with geographic compensation practices and subject to regulatory compliance. These programs each further align our employees financial interests with the performance of the business and the interests of our stockholders. We generally provide annual compensation increases and incentive compensation based on merit. We purchase compensation data from a compensation and benefits consulting firm to allow us to ensure we provide competitive compensation in each of the geographic locations in which we operate. We align our executives annual and long-term equity compensation with our stockholders interests by linking realizable pay with stock performance and operating metrics. 18 We provide comprehensive benefit options designed to retain our employees and support their families in living healthier and more secure lives. Employee recruitment, retention and development. Allegro works diligently to attract the best talent from a broad array of sources to meet the current and future demands of our business. We have established relationships with trade schools, world-class universities, professional associations and industry groups to proactively attract talented and capable new hires. We also utilize social media, local job fairs and educational organizations to find diverse, motivated and responsible employees. Allegro has made strides to increase diversity in management positions, building internal resources for potential future leadership openings. Allegro has a strong employee value proposition that leverages our technology leadership, unique culture, collaborative working environment, shared sense of purpose, and desire to do the right thing to attract talent to our company. In fiscal 2021, we hired approximatel y 835 new employees. We monitor employee turnover rates, as our success depends upon retaining and investing in our highly trained manufacturing and technical staff. Allegro strives to decrease voluntary turnover rates and thereby increase employee tenure by ensuring a combination of competitive compensation, individual developmental opportunities and personal career enrichment and growth. Our retention at the technical, professional and managerial levels is high. In fiscal 2021, amidst global uncertainty and turmoil resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we introduced a number of special initiatives to minimize the impact on our employees and to safeguard their health and safety. These initiatives included compensation programs designed to provide a source of income to employees who needed to be absent from work as a result of the pandemic and enhanced appreciation pay to recognize the significant contributions of hourly employees who continued to work on-site. Throughout the crisis, we believe our employees took immense pride in the shared purpose of making products that supported the worlds critical supply chains within a wide range of essential businesses and services. Information about our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of May 19, 2021: Name Age Position with the Company Ravi Vig 60 President and Chief Executive Officer, Director Paul V. Walsh, Jr. 56 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Christopher E. Brown 53 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Michael C. Doogue 45 Senior Vice President of Technology and Products Max R. Glover 39 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales Thomas C. Teebagy, Jr. 61 Senior Vice President of Operations and Quality Ravi Vig has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since 2016. Mr. Vig joined Allegro in 1984 as an Analog Design Engineer and then as a Design Manager. Mr. Vig helped to launch the companys magnetic sensor IC business. Mr. Vig later spearheaded the marketing effort for these innovative products, where he became the Vice President of our Sensors Business Unit. Mr. Vig has also served as the Senior Vice President of Business Development, responsible for our sensor and power IC businesses. Prior to being named President and Chief Executive Officer in 2016, Mr. Vig served as our Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Vig holds over 50 U.S. patents in the areas of sensors and semiconductors. Mr. Vig serves as a Trustee for the Committee for Economic Development, a nonprofit, nonpartisan, business-led public policy organization. Mr. Vig received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University in 1982 and an M.S. in Engineering from Dartmouth College in 1984. Mr. Vig received an M.B.A. from Southern New Hampshire University in 1991 and completed the Global Executive Leadership Program at Yale University in 2017. Paul V. Walsh, Jr. has served as our Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since he joined Allegro in April 2014. Prior to joining Allegro, Mr. Walsh served as the Chief Financial Officer for Rocket Software from 2013 to 2014. From 2004 to 2013, Mr. Walsh was employed at Silicon Laboratories, a publicly traded global technology company that designs and manufacturers semiconductors, other silicon devices and software and served in various senior financial leadership roles, including as the Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from 2011 to 2013 and Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Walsh also served as Silicon Laboratories Interim Chief Financial Officer in 2006. Mr. Walsh served on the board of directors for Nitero, a venture-backed startup semiconductor company, from 2012 to 2015. Mr. Walsh served as the Audit Committee Chair of Grande Communications, a broadband communications provider of cable and internet services, from 2008 to 2010. During his career, Mr. Walsh has held various finance and operations positions at Perkin Elmer, Teradyne and Analog Devices. Mr. Walsh received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the 19 University of Maine in 1986 and an M.B.A. from Boston University in 1992. Mr. Walsh also received a Graduate Certificate in Accountancy from Bentley College in 1996. Mr. Walsh passed the CPA exam in 1997. Christopher E. Brown has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel since he joined Allegro in May 2020 and as our Secretary since November 2020. Prior to joining Allegro, Mr. Brown served as Executive Vice President and Chief Counsel of Finisar Corp., a manufacturer of components for optical networking and consumer 3D sensing applications, from 2008 to 2019. Mr. Brown also served as the General Counsel of Optium Corporation, a manufacturer of components for telecom optical networking applications from 2006 to 2008. Prior to his time as the General Counsel of Optium, Mr. Brown was a partner at the law firms of Goodwin Procter LLP and McDermott Will & Emery LLP. Mr. Brown received a B.A. in Economics from the University of Massachusetts-Amherst in 1989 and a J.D. from Boston College Law School in 1996. Michael C. Doogue has served as our Senior Vice PresidentTechnology and Products since 2019. Mr. Doogue joined Allegro in 1998 as a Design Engineer facilitating the development of Allegros innovative speed and current sensor ICs. Mr. Doogue has also served in various leadership positions at Allegro, including as Design Manager from 2002 to 2006, Director of Strategic Marketing from 2006 to 2011, Business Unit Director of Linear Current Sensors from 2011 to 2016 and as Vice President of Advanced Sensor Technologies from 2016 to 2019. Mr. Doogue holds over 70 U.S. patents in the areas of sensors and semiconductors. Mr. Doogue received a B.A. in Physics from Colby College in 1997 and a B.E. in Electrical Engineering from Dartmouth College in 1998. In 2007, Mr. Doogue completed the Stanford Executive Program at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Max R. Glover has served as our Senior Vice PresidentWorldwide Sales since he joined Allegro i n 2019. Prior to joining Allegro, Mr. Glover served as the General Manager of the Automotive Sales Group at Intel Corporation, a computing, networking, data storage, and communications solutions company from 2016 to 2019. Mr. Glover also served as Intel Corporations Director of Sales from 2013 to 2016, and also served in various leadership, sales, marketing and engineering roles from 2001 to 2013. Mr. Glover received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati in 2004. Thomas C. Teebagy, Jr. has served as our Senior Vice PresidentOperations and Quality since 2017. Mr. Teebagy joined Allegro in 2005 and served as a Senior Director of Manufacturing Technology from January 2005 to May 2014. Mr. Teebagy also served as a Vice President of Manufacturing Technology from May 2014 to July 2016 and as a Vice President of Operations from July 2016 to June 2017. Prior to joining Allegro, Mr. Teebagy was employed by International Rectifier, a semiconductor manufacturing company (which was later acquired by Infineon Technologies AG), where he served as Vice President of Operations of the companys headquarters of their Government and Space Division from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Teebagy received a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Massachusetts-Lowell in 1981 and an M.B.A. in Business Administration from Babson College in 1982. Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Regulation Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local, international and non-U.S. laws and regulations governing pollution and environmental protection, including those relating to the release, storage, use, discharge, handling, generation, transportation, disposal, and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials, product composition and the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites, including sites we currently or formerly owned or operated, due to the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused such release. In addition, we may be strictly liable for joint and several costs associated with investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if such sites become contaminated, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We are also subject to various federal, state, local, international and non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to significant fines or other civil or criminal costs, obligations, sanctions or property damage or personal injury claims, or suspension of our facilities operating permits. In addition, in the event of an incident involving hazardous materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of any liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business. Compliance with current or future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our business or require us to modify processes or incur other substantial expenses which could harm our business. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations due to the evolving nature of environmental laws regulations and standards, as well as specific customer requirements. These laws, regulations and standards have an impact on the material composition of our products entering specific markets. For example, the European Union (EU) adopted its Restriction of Hazardous Substance Directive (RoHS) in 2003 and continues to develop evolving compliance standards, with its most recent restrictions announced as part of RoHS 3, which took effect in July 2019. The EU also adopted the European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) 20 in 2007, which calls for the progressive substitution of dangerous chemicals in manufacturing. In 2006, China first published its RoHS, the Administrative Measures on the Control of Pollution Cause by Electronic Information Products. This regulation was revised in 2016 when China enacted the Administrative Measures on the Restrictions of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Products Regulations, which expanded the scope of the 2006 RoHS and is designed to restrict additional hazardous substance in certain electrical and electronic products. In addition, any business selling products to consumers in California containing certain listed chemicals or substances is subject to California Proposition 65 (officially known as the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986), which requires disclosure of the listed chemical and potential health risks. In addition to these regulations and directives, we may face costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which holds manufacturers responsible for the collection and proper disposal of their products discarded by their customers. Although we incur costs to comply with the provisions discussed above and other applicable federal, state, local, international and non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to environmental protection in the ordinary course of our business, such costs have not materially affected, and are not presently expected to materially affect, our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Documents we file with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at https://investors.allegromicro.com/financials/sec-filings , as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with the SEC. The information included on or available through our website is not part of this or any other report we file with the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC is available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov . Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should consider these risks carefully, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed materially. In that event, the trading price of our common stock might decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not believed by us to be material may also negatively impact us. Risk Factors Summary The following summary description sets forth an overview of the material risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. The summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full risk factor discussion immediately following this summary description. Our revenue and expenses are difficult to predict, have varied significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. Our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as your investment in our common stock, could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following material risks: The effect of downturns or volatility in general economic conditions; Intense competition in the global semiconductor industry; Reliance on a limited number of third-party wafer fabrication facilities for our production; Failure to adjust our supply chain volume due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers demand; Shifts in our product mix or customer mix may result in declines in gross margin; The highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain or improve profitability; Substantial portions of our sales are made to automotive industry suppliers; Decreases in average selling prices of our products and increases in input costs may reduce gross margins; Third-party wafer fabrication facilities may encounter sustained yield problems, disruptions, or other delays in the final assembly and test of our products which may damage customer relationships or cause us to transition manufacturing capabilities to other facilities; 21 Future implementation initiatives designed to improve our competitiveness, growth and profitability may lead to significant costs; Our quarterly net sales and operating results are difficult to predict accurately and may fluctuate significantly from period to period; Our dependence on our manufacturing operations in the Philippines exposes us to certain risks that may harm our business; Significant portion of our net sales are generated through distributors; Events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; The effect of health epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks of infectious disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; Failure to timely and cost-effectively develop new product features or new products that address customer preferences; Ability to effectively manage our growth; Dependence on growth in the end markets that use our products; The loss of one or more significant end customers could have a material adverse effect on our business; Our ability to meet customer quality requirements; The nature of the design win process requires us to incur expenses with no guarantee of net sales or sufficient margins; Changes in government trade policies, including tariffs and export restrictions; Potential warranty claims, product liability claims, and product recalls could harm the business; Our dependence on international customers and operations subjects us to a range of regulatory, operational, financial and political risks; End-user demand for certain green energy products often depends on the availability of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives; Our ability to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products could adversely impact our net sales; Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect our business; Risks associated with acquisitions of and investments in new business, products or technologies; Our ability to raise capital in the future; Our indebtedness may limit our flexibility to operate our business; Our ability to retain key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business; Risks associated with information technology, intellectual property, and data security and privacy; Risks related to compliance with various governmental laws and regulations; Our principal stockholders, Sanken and One Equity Partners (OEP), have substantial control over us; Risks associated with the ownership of our stock, including volatility in our trading price, future sales of shares by our stockholders, and dilution from the issuance of additional shares; Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL) may limit the liability of certain individuals, prevent or discourage a takeover, or limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees; Our disclosure