Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. Business. Our Company Align Technology, Inc. (we, us, our, Align or the Company) is a global medical device company primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners for the treatment of malocclusions, or the misalignment of teeth, by orthodontists and general dental practitioners (GPs), ViveraTM retainers for retention, iTeroTM intraoral scanners and services for dentistry, and exocadTM computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software for dental laboratories and dental practitioners. Our vision and strategy is to revolutionize orthodontic and restorative dentistry through digital treatment planning and implementation using the AlignTM Digital Platform, an integrated suite of proprietary technologies and services designed to deliver a seamless, end-to-end solution for patients, consumers, orthodontists, GPs and lab partners. We strive to achieve our vision and strategy through key objectives made possible with the proprietary technologies and services of the AlignTM Digital Platform to establish: clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions with the Invisalign System as the treatment solution of choice by orthodontists, GPs and patients globally, our iTero intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the dental restorative solution of choice for dental labs. 3 Our corporate headquarters are located at 410 North Scottsdale Road, Suite 1300, Tempe, Arizona 85288. Our telephone number is 602-742-2000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com. Our Americas regional headquarters is located in Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A.; our European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regional headquarters is located in Rotkreuz, Switzerland; and our Asia Pacific (APAC) regional headquarters is located in Singapore. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner and (2) Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services (Systems and Services). For the year ended December 31, 2024, Clear Aligner net revenues represented approximately 81% of worldwide net revenues, while Systems and Services net revenues represented the remaining 19%. We sell the majority of our products and services directly through a dedicated and specialized sales force to our customers: orthodontists, GPs, including prosthodontists, periodontists, oral surgeons and dental laboratories. We also sell through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell directly to Dental Support Organizations (DSOs) who contract with dental practices to provide critical business management and support including non-clinical operations. We also sell our products to dental laboratories who use our products to manufacture or customize their own products for licensed dentists. We furthermore market and sell doctor and consumer accessory products complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products under the Invisalign and other brands, including retainers, dental supplies, clear aligner cases (clamshells), ultrasonic and UV electronic cleaning devices, teeth whitening products and cleaning solutions (collectively, Invisalign Accessory Products). Depending on the product, our Invisalign Accessory Products are sold through a variety of channels, including online through large e-commerce websites, our doctor portal and in-store through large retailers and pharmacy stores. Our clear aligners are sold under the Invisalign brand name. Our Invisalign System is intended mainly for the treatment of malocclusions and is designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes they expect and the results patients desire. To date, over 19 million people worldwide have been treated with the Invisalign System. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. Our iTero intraoral scanners are used by dental professionals, labs, and service providers for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign case submissions. Our exocad CAD/CAM software products provide restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery and smile design to dental labs and dental practices through fully integrated workflows, with the goal to provide cross-disciplinary dentistry in labs and at chairside. Our Products, Services and Technologies AlignTM Digital Platform We strive to be at the forefront of innovation in digital orthodontics and dentistry, helping doctors transform their practices using digital tools and technology to deliver exceptional, modern treatment experiences and outcomes to patients worldwide. The AlignTM Digital Platform is the foundation of our goal to revolutionize the practice of dentistry, delivering interconnected, interdisciplinary workflows and treatment solutions designed to improve all aspects of treatment, from initial consultations to final smiles with our doctor-centered treatment model. The AlignTM Digital Platform is an end-to-end digital platform that combines software, systems and services to seamlessly integrate and connect those critical to successful treatment outcomes 4 doctors, labs, patients and consumers. At the center of the AlignTM Digital Platform are Invisalign clear aligners, iTero intraoral scanners and exocad CAD/CAM software. The AlignTM Digital Platform utilizes the AlignTM Digital Workflow to enable an end-to-end digital treatment experience and generate interconnected workflows and treatment solutions, that includes the following key components: Connect: The initial stage of the platform drives consumer demand and connects potential patients to our websites and the websites of Invisalign providers. Some of the tools that support this stage are Invisalign.com, the Invisalign SmileViewTM tool, My Invisalign app, Doctor Locator, Invisalign Practice App, and Invisalign Virtual Appointment. Scan: During this stage, patient data is captured through intraoral scanning. Doctors and their staffs use intraoral scanning tools designed to support diagnosis of a patients oral conditions and health and support doctors to develop appropriate treatment pathways. Visualization of their potential smiles helps patients understand the benefits of treatment and increase patient conversion. The tools that support this stage, include, iTero intraoral scanners and exocad CAD/CAM imaging systems, Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro, Invisalign Photo Uploader, Invisalign SmileViewTM tool, iTero ElementTM 5D auto-upload feature, iTeroTM Scan Report and iTero-exocad ConnectorTM. Diagnose: Doctors can access and use tools that support diagnosis of a patients oral health and develop an appropriate treatment pathway. The AlignTM Digital Platform facilitates the doctor-patient conversation, through education regarding clinical needs and setting expectations. Some of the tools that support this stage include AlignTM Oral Health Suite, iTeroTM intraoral scanners, including those with NIRI technology (Near Infra-Red Imaging), iTeroTM TimeLapse technology and iTero Occlusogram. Plan: Doctors digitally visualize and plan orthodontic and restorative treatments. Orthodontists and GPs can use our products to design, build and share their vision for treatment planning and agree on a customized plan with their patients to reach the desired outcomes. Some of the tools that support this stage are ClinCheck Pro 6.0,ClinCheck Plan Editor, ClinCheck In-Face Visualization, ClinCheck Live Update, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Personalized Plan, CBCT Integration for ClinCheck software, Clincheck Smile Video, Invisalign Smile ArchitectTM, iTeroTM Design Suite, exocad Dental CADTM software and exocad Dental CAD 3.2 Elefsina software. Treat: During this stage, doctors treat their patients with our Invisalign clear aligners and may offer teeth whitening using the InvisalignTM Professional Whitening System. The Invisalign Palatal Expander System and the Invisalign System with mandibular advancement featuring enhanced precision wings are additional products that support patient treatment. Monitor: Doctors can remotely track their patients treatment between visits, and orthodontists and GPs can more easily track treatment progress and communicate issues, results and recommendations to their patients. Some of the tools that support this stage include Invisalign Virtual Care AI, My InvisalignTM app, Invisalign Doctor Site, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Progress Assessment and iTeroTM scanners. Retain: Following completion of their orthodontic treatment, patients can retain the final position of their teeth using ViveraTM retainers. As we further evolve the treatment planning experience for doctors through new technological research and development innovations, we expect to introduce new technologies, features and functionality that improve personalization of treatment planning, predictability, clinical preferences, and 2D/3D imaging, including digital tools for faster and more accurate final tooth positions. In 2024, we launched several new products and technologies that further enhance the AlignTM Digital Platform, including the iTero LuminaTM intraoral scanner, iTero Multi-Direct CaptureTM technology, Clincheck Smile Video, iTeroTM Design Suite, Invisalign Smile ArchitectTM with treatment planning software with Multiple Treatment Plans, Invisalign Outcome Simulator with Multiple Treatment Simulation and AlignTM Oral Health Suite with new comparison tools. Clear Aligner Segment Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment 5 Malocclusion is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions in the world, affecting approximately 60% to 75% of the global population. We estimate that there are approximately 600 million people globally with malocclusion who could benefit from straightening their teeth. However, most people afflicted by malocclusion do not seek orthodontic treatment for various reasons, including negative perceptions of traditional metal wires and brackets, affordability of treatment, and accessibility to doctors. Annually, only approximately 22 million people globally elect treatment by orthodontists. Today, most orthodontic patients continue to have their malocclusions treated with the use of traditional corrective methods such as metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, augmented with elastics, metal expanders, headgear or functional appliances, and other ancillary devices as needed. Upon completion of a patients treatment, their dental professional may recommend the patient use a retainer appliance to preserve the benefits of their treatment. Of the 22 million cases started each year, we estimate that almost all can be treated using our Invisalign System, yet our share of the 22 million case starts through orthodontists is approximately 10% globally. Our business strategy remains focused on increasing our share of the existing market of orthodontic case starts compared to brackets and wires, especially among teens, and expand the market for digital orthodontics, especially among adults. By training more doctors, including GPs as well as orthodontists, increasing utilization of existing doctors using our products, educating more consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign System and connecting consumers with an Invisalign-trained doctor of their choice, we are helping drive adoption of digital orthodontics and restorative dentistry globally. The Invisalign System The Invisalign System is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a proprietary computer-simulated virtual treatment plan and a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear polymer removable aligners. We received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market the Invisalign System in 1998. The Invisalign System offers a range of treatment options, specialized services and access to proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: Diagnosis and transmission of treatment data. As part of the Align Digital Workflow, we have developed solutions to enable doctors to diagnosis and drive patient conversion from considering treatment to starting treatment providing tools to support diagnosis of patients oral health and support to identify an appropriate treatment pathway, facilitating the doctor-patient conversation, education and clinical needs and expectations. An Invisalign trained dental professional prepares an online prescription form on our Invisalign Doctor Site and securely submits the patients records, which include a digital intraoral scan or a polyvinyl-siloxane (PVS) impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professionals election, x-rays of the patients dentition. Intraoral digital scans may be submitted through Aligns iTero scanner or certain third-party scanners capable of accurately interfacing with our systems and processes. Globally, approximately 94% of prescription orders for our Invisalign System are now submitted via digital scan, increasing the accuracy of treatment plans, reducing the time from when a doctor submits a prescription to the time a patient receives the clear aligners, and helping to decrease the carbon footprint resulting from elimination of the initial or upfront shipment of a patients PVS impressions to the doctors and shipping those PVS impressions back to us. Computer-simulated treatment plan. Our ClinCheck Pro cloud-based treatment planning software is the cornerstone of the AlignTM Digital Platform. ClinCheck Pro leverages proprietary algorithms based on the insights from data from over19 million patients treated worldwide. Using the digital scans or PVS impressions, any specific doctor preferences and digital data provided, we generate a proposed custom, three-dimensional ClinCheck treatment plan using proprietary software developed through significant, ongoing research and development investments spanning over two decades. A patients ClinCheck treatment plan simulates desired tooth movement in stages and details the timing and placement of any features or attachments to be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored shapes that can be affixed to a patients teeth to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to affect the desired movement(s). Treatment plan review and approval by an Invisalign-trained doctor. The patients proposed ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via our Invisalign Doctor Site, enabling the dental professional to evaluate projected tooth movement as it progresses from initial to final position and compare treatment plan options to best meet the dental professionals treatment objectives. By reviewing, modifying as needed and approving an acceptable treatment plan, the dental professional retains control of the patients treatment. Manufacture of custom clear aligners. Following the dental professionals approval of a ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation as input for stereolithography technology (a form of 3D printing technology) to construct a series of molds. Each mold is a replica of the patients teeth at each stage of the simulated course of treatment. From these molds, clear aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Clear aligners are thin, clear polymer, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series designed to correspond to each stage of a patients ClinCheck treatment plan. 6 Shipment to the dental professional and patient clear aligner wear. Once manufactured, each clear aligner for a patients doctor-approved treatment plan is typically shipped directly to the dental professional. The majority of doctors then distribute each clear aligner to their patients. Each set of clear aligners (one clear aligner for the lower and a second for the upper jaw) are generally worn for one week or for a short period of time corresponding to the stages of the patients approved ClinCheck treatment plan and their doctors discretion. The patient replaces their current set of clear aligners with the next pair in the series as and when prescribed, advancing tooth movement through each stage. At various points in each patients treatment, their doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per their doctors original prescription and the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. Additionally, for patients treated using many of our Invisalign System products, doctors have the option to order additional clear aligners for doctor-approved treatment plan refinements. Clear Aligner Products We offer our Invisalign System in a variety of treatment packages designed to correspond with the case-by-case treatment needs of our doctors and their patients and also designed on nonclinical needs. The table below provides a general description of the categories of products in our Invisalign System offered in various regions as they typically correspond to the severity of malocclusion and length of anticipated treatment. Malocclusion Very Mild Moderate Severe Product Invisalign Express Package Invisalign Lite Package Invisalign Go (GP) Invisalign Moderate Packages (& Invisalign Go Plus) Invisalign Comprehensive Packages Treatment Stages* 7 14 20 20-26 As many as required Clinical Scope Relapse and minor movement, anterior esthetic alignment Up to 2mm AP correction, crowding/spacing, lower incisor extraction, pre-restorative No AP correction, mild to moderate crowding, spacing, lower incisor extraction, pre-restorative tooth movement from 2nd premolar to 2nd premolar (5x5) Class I, mild AP correction, moderate crowding/spacing, mild anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, pre-restorative, (Go Plus tooth movement from 1st molar to 1st molar (6X6)) Class I, II, III, moderate to severe crowding/spacing, anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, extractions, complex pre-restorative * The number of stages can vary by product and region. Most of our Invisalign System products described above provide dental professionals with the option to order additional clear aligners if the patients treatment progress or needs deviate from the original treatment plan. The number and timing of additional clear aligner orders are subject to certain requirements noted in our terms and conditions. Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options Invisalign Comprehensive Packages. The Invisalign Comprehensive Package is used to treat adults and teens over a wide spectrum of mild to severe malocclusion and contains a broad variety of features to address the desired treatment goals. It also addresses the frequently complex orthodontic needs of teenage or younger patients with advanced features such as mandibular advancement, compliance indicators and compensation for tooth eruption. These packages include Invisalign Comprehensive, Invisalign FirstTM Phase 1 and Invisalign FirstTM Comprehensive Phase 2. Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Packages. Invisalign First Phase 1 Package is designed specifically for younger patients generally between the ages of six and ten, who frequently have a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth. Invisalign First Phase 1 treatment provides early interceptive orthodontic treatment, traditionally done through arch expansion, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. Invisalign First Phase 1 clear aligners are designed specifically to address a wide range of younger patients malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Our Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package complements Invisalign First Phase 1 and is generally consistent with our Invisalign Comprehensive Package. After a patient completes Invisalign First Phase 1, doctors have the option to purchase a Comprehensive Phase 2 Package for that same patient. In the first quarter of 2023, we launched the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product. The 3in3 configuration offers doctors Invisalign Comprehensive treatment with a three-year treatment expiration date and three sets of additional clear aligners included prior to the treatment expiration date, rather than the five-year treatment expiration date with unlimited additional clear aligner sets prior to the treatment end date offered under the Invisalign Comprehensive Package. 7 Non-Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Non-comprehensive Packages. We offer a variety of lower-priced treatment packages for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive relapse cases, or teeth straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments, such as veneers. These treatment packages include Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite, and Invisalign Moderate. These packages may be offered in select countries and/or may differ from region to region. Invisalign Doctor Subscription Program (DSP) is our monthly subscription-based clear aligner program which includes retainers and low-stage touch-up clear aligner treatment. DSP is currently available in North America, Latin America, and certain countries in Europe. Invisalign Go Packages. In various markets we also offer Invisalign GoTM, Invisalign GoTM Express and Invisalign Go Plus, which are streamlined non-comprehensive packages designed for GPs to more easily identify and treat patients with mild-to-moderate malocclusion cases, expand arch width, align anterior teeth prior to restorative treatment, and move teeth from second pre-molar to second pre-molar. These packages include case assessment support, simplified ClinCheck treatment plans and a progress assessment feature for case monitoring. Non-Case Products: The Comprehensive and Non-Comprehensive clear aligner packages described above are distributed in cases, meaning that all the sets of clear aligners required for all the stages of a doctor-approved treatment plan are delivered in a case. We also sell non-case products. Clear aligner non-case products include retention products, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment, ancillary Invisalign Accessory Products and other oral health products available in certain e-commerce and retail channels in the United States. Retention. We offer up to four sets of custom clear aligners called Vivera retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse, if necessary, as well as Invisalign retainers. Retainers are generally available for doctors to offer to any of their patients, whether they use the Invisalign System or other products, including wires and brackets. In select markets, we also offer single set retainers. Invisalign Professional Whitening System. Additionally, we offer a professional whitening system using Ultradents Opalescence PF whitening system with Invisalign clear aligners or Vivera retainers. New Products/Feature Enhancement Invisalign Palatal Expander System. In December 2023, we received 510(k) clearance in the United States for the Invisalign Palatal Expanders. Invisalign Palatal Expanders are intended for use in rapid expansion and subsequent holding of skeletal and/or dental narrow maxilla (upper jaw) with primary, mixed, or permanent dentition. The Invisalign Palatal Expander System consists of a series of removable devices staged in small increments of movement to expand a patients narrow maxilla to a position determined by their treating doctor. Each direct 3D printed device is customized to the patients unique anatomy based on an iTero intraoral digital scan. A palatal expansion treatment plan and device design are then developed using our proprietary orthodontic software. The Invisalign Palatal Expander is our first direct 3D printed orthodontic device. Combined with Invisalign First Phase 1 clear aligners, Invisalign Palatal Expanders provide doctors with a full early intervention treatment solution such as Phase 1, an early interceptive orthodontic treatment for young patients. The Invisalign Palatal Expander System is currently available in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and certain countries in EMEA. The Invisalign Palatal Expander System is expected to be commercially available in additional markets, pending regulatory approvals. In January 2024, we completed the acquisition of Cubicure GmbH (Cubicure), a company that develops, produces and distributes innovative materials, equipment and processes for novel 3D printing solutions. We believe the acquisition of Cubicure will support our long-term growth strategy by enabling us to scale our 3D printing operations to eventually direct print millions of custom appliances per day. We expect the acquisition of Cubicure will ultimately extend and scale our printing, materials and manufacturing capabilities for our 3D printed products while concurrently materially reducing the amount of resin used in our manufacturing process. Direct fabrication offers the transformative potential of design flexibility that goes beyond what the current thermoforming technology allows. This will potentially allow us to design unique appliances 8 that may perform even better than our existing ones and address unmet market needs. We expect to pilot our first devices on this platform with 3D printed retainers in the first half of 2025. Smart Technology: SmartTrackTM, SmartForceTM and SmartStageTM Smart technology is applied in the development of Invisalign treatments and leads to more precise control of individual and multiple tooth movements. We use a force driven system in our Invisalign clear aligners such that the next clear aligner is shaped so that when inserted, the clear aligner stretches and applies the desired force to the surface of the tooth, resulting in the desired tooth movement. Smart technology allows us to find the right thickness, the right elasticity, and the right force application over a period of time. Smart technology includes the use of SmartTrack, SmartForce and SmartStage Technology. SmartTrack Material. SmartTrack clear aligner material is a patented, custom-engineered Invisalign clear aligner material that provides gentle, more constant force to improve control of tooth movements. Conventional clear aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percentage of the force applied in the initial days of wear. SmartTrack material maintains more constant force over a longer period of time. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. SmartForce Attachments. SmartForce attachments are small tooth-colored shapes that attach to teeth before or during Invisalign treatment. Invisalign clear aligners fit smoothly and tightly around the attachments and give the clear aligners something to gently push on. SmartForce attachments make complex tooth movements possible without braces by helping clear aligners apply the right amount of force in the right direction. SmartStage Technology. SmartStage is an advanced algorithm that determines the optimal path of tooth movement and the shape of the clear aligner at every stage of an Invisalign treatment. The programming determines tooth movement in a certain sequence, at the right time to achieve optimal outcomes with greater predictability and fewer undesirable interferences. Systems and Services Segment Intraoral scanning is a rapidly evolving technology substantially impacting the practice of dentistry. By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image (digital scan) of a patients teeth using a handheld intraoral scanner, digital scanning is faster, more efficient, precise and comfortable for patients. Beginning patient care with the early use of our iTero intraoral scanners and combining the results with digital workflows designed to assist doctors and patients visualize and evaluate various treatment options with detailed imagery and CAD/CAM solutions helps patients decide to undergo treatment and improve treatment outcomes and satisfaction. The accuracy of digitally scanned models substantially reduces the rate of restoration remakes, which results in patients being recalled to dental offices less often and experiencing shorter treatment times for the restoration work because fewer procedures are required after teeth are aligned and spaced optimally, increasing overall patient satisfaction. Digital models also reduce the carbon footprint associated with the shipping of the materials used to create PVS impressions, the shipping of those impressions and their disposal. Moreover, the digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; digital records storage; aid to caries detection; orthodontic diagnosis; orthodontic retainers and appliances; and Invisalign digital impression submission. iTero Scanner. The iTero Element portfolio of intraoral scanners includes the iTero Element 2, the iTero Element Flex, iTero Element 5D Imaging System, iTero Element Plus Series and the iTero Lumina intraoral scanner which are each available in select regions and countries. These products build on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio and are available with software options for orthodontic and restorative procedures. The iTero scanner is interoperable with our Invisalign System such that a full arch or full mouth digital scan can be submitted as part of the Invisalign System prescription order submission process. Our iTero Element 5D Imaging System is the first integrated dental imaging system that simultaneously records 3D, intraoral color camera images, near infrared imaging (NIRI) technology and enables comparison over time using the iTero TimeLapse technology. NIRI technology, included in our iTero Element 5D and 5D Plus Imaging Systems, aids in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries above the gingiva in real time, without using harmful radiation. In October 2021, the findings of a clinical study we sponsored were published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Dentistry which demonstrated that the NIRI technology of the iTero Element 5D imaging system was 66% more sensitive than bitewing x-ray radiography for detection of interproximal lesions, without the use of harmful radiation. We received 510(k) clearance in the United States for the caries detection feature of the iTero Element 5D in 2020. The iTero Element Plus Series of intraoral scanners and imaging systems offers restorative and orthodontic digital workflows that include enhanced visualization for optimized patient 9 experience, including a fully integrated 3D intraoral camera in certain models, seamless scanning with reduced processing time, artificial intelligence (AI)-based features, and, in certain models, NIRI technology. Our iTero Element scanners are offered in a number of software configurations such as Ortho Comprehensive, Restorative Comprehensive and Restorative Foundation. These software packages are included in the price of the scanner and have a service period of 1 to 5 years. They enable various orthodontic and restorative workflows as well as provide other applications, including Invisalign Outcome Simulator, Invisalign Case Assessment tool, Invisalign Progress Assessment tool, and iTero TimeLapse technology. Our iTero software is designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers. Our restorative software is designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists and oral surgeons and includes restorative workflows providing the ability to send digital impressions to the lab of their choice and communicate seamlessly with external treatment planning, custom implant abutment, chairside milling and laboratory CAD/CAM systems such as through our iTero-exocad ConnectorTM. In January 2024, we launched the iTero Lumina intraoral scanner. The iTero Lumina intraoral scanner is designed with iTero Multi-Direct CaptureTM technology that we believe quickly, easily and accurately captures more data while delivering exceptional scan quality and photorealistic images that remove the need for intraoral photos. iTero Multi-Direct Capture replaces the confocal imaging technology in earlier intraoral scanner models. It has a wider field of capture and multi-angled scanning that enables simultaneous capture from multiple angles. Additionally, the iTero Lumina scanner has a capture distance of up to 25mm, making it easier to scan complex oral regions such as narrow or deep palates, edentulous spaces, and partially erupted teeth with minimal maneuvering. It has a 50% smaller and 45% lighter wand (as compared to iTero Element 5D imaging system wand, excluding the wand cable), which is expected to be especially beneficial for kids and teen patients. The iTero Lumina scanner has photorealistic scans which enables high quality clinical decisions the same way intraoral photos do, and its advanced software enables scanning at two times the speed. We expect to launch the restorative software on the iTero Lumina intraoral scanner by the end of the first quarter of 2025. Invisalign Outcome Simulator. The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is an exclusive chair-side and cloud-based application for the iTero scanner that allows doctors to help patients visualize how their teeth may look at the end of Invisalign treatment. This is achieved through a dual view layout that shows a prospective patient an image of their own current dentition next to a simulated final position after Invisalign treatment. Invisalign Progress Assessment Tool. The Invisalign Progress Assessment tool provides the ability to compare a patients new scan with a specific stage of their ClinCheck treatment plan, allowing doctors to visually assess and communicate Invisalign treatment progress with an easy-to-read, color-coded, tooth movement report. iTeroTM TimeLapse Technology. Our iTeroTM TimeLapse technology allows doctors or practitioners to compare a patients historic 3D scans to the present-day scan, enabling clinicians to identify and measure orthodontic movement, tooth wear, and gingival recession. This highlights areas of diagnostic interest to dental professionals and helps foster a proactive conversation with the patient regarding potential restorative or orthodontic solutions. AlignTM Oral Health Suite. The Align Oral Health Suite is a digital interface designed to enhance dental consultations and drive patient acceptance of dental treatment. It offers a modern approach to dental examinations, featuring an innovative clinical framework designed to empower doctors and their clinic staff to conduct comprehensive oral health assessments via a single scan using patient-friendly terminology, and providing a highly engaging patient-centric experience. It integrates iTero diagnostic aid and visualization tools, such as iTero NIRI, iTero Occlusogram, iTero TimeLapse and Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro into a single interface chairside on the iTero scanner. CAD/CAM Services. Our exocad CAD/CAM software platform addresses restorative needs in an end-to-end digital platform workflow to facilitate ortho-restorative and comprehensive dentistry. The platform provides doctors and dental labs with digital clinical solutions that aid GPs and dental labs in planning and delivering restorative dental treatments, adding restorative functionality to our comprehensive digital platform to deliver digital ortho-restorative workflows and interdisciplinary dentistry. Our exocad software is licensed and sold separately. Other proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such as software embedded in our iTero intraoral scanners, ClinCheck and ClinCheck Pro software, the Invisalign Doctor Site, Align X-Ray Insights and feature enhancements included as part of the Invisalign System are not sold separately, nor do they contribute as individual items to revenues. 10 Business Strategy Over the past 27 years, Align has helped doctors treat over 19 million patients with the Invisalign System and is driving the evolution in digital dentistry through the AlignTM Digital Platform. Our technology and innovations are designed to meet the demands of todays patients with convenient, comfortable and affordable treatment options, while improving overall oral health. We strive to help doctors and lab technicians move their businesses forward by connecting them with new patients, providing digital solutions that increase operational speed and efficiency and provide solutions that allow them to deliver exceptional treatment outcomes and experiences to millions of people around the world. We achieve this by focusing on and executing our strategic growth drivers: International Expansion. We continue increasing our presence globally by increasing awareness of our products and by making them available in more countries to more customers and consumers. We continue expansion of our sales and marketing by reaching into new countries and regions, including new areas in Africa and Latin America. As of the end of 2024, we are selling directly or through authorized distributors in more than 100 countries. As our business continues to grow in both number of new Invisalign-trained doctors and customer utilization, we support that growth through targeted investments such as clinical support, product improvements, technological innovations, clinical education and advertising. In addition, we are scaling and expanding our operations and facilities to better support the growing numbers of global customers. As of the end of 2024, we have 13 fabrication and treatment planning locations throughout the world. We have a manufacturing facility in each of our three key regions: Americas (Mexico), APAC (China), and EMEA (Poland).Each of these three facilities form the foundation of our manufacturing strategy, which continues to evolve to increase flexibility and optimize our capacity and cost structure. We also perform digital treatment planning and interpretation for restorative cases worldwide, including in Costa Rica, China, Germany, Spain, Poland, and Japan, among others. By establishing and expanding our key operational activities in locations closer to our customers, we are creating an infrastructure that allows us to be responsive to local and regional needs, while providing global operational flexibility and scale needed for variations in global and regional demand. We expect to continue expanding our business in 2025 by investing in resources, infrastructure and initiatives that help drive Invisalign treatment growth, position our iTero intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans, and establish our exocad CAD/CAM software as the solution of choice for dental labs in existing and new international markets. GP Dentist Treatment. We strive to enable GPs, who have the potential to treat the general patient population, to more easily identify potential cases they can treat with the Invisalign System, monitor patient progress or, if needed, help refer cases to an orthodontist while providing high-quality restorative, orthodontic and dental hygiene care. We believe success with GPs can be achieved through doctor training and clinical education, by offering digital tools such as the iTero intraoral scanner and products like Invisalign Go treatment that address the distinctive needs of GP patients, all delivered by sales and marketing personnel specifically focused on the unique needs of this customer category. We encourage GPs to scan every patient with intraoral scanners as a means to diagnose and treat patients over time and as an opportunity to drive future demand for their services and the Invisalign System. DSOs represent a large and growing opportunity to help drive adoption of digital technology across the dental industry. We have well established relationships with many DSOs globally that recognize the benefits of digital workflows enabled by our portfolio of products and services that make up the AlignTM Digital Platform, including increased practice efficiency and profitability, as well as delivering a better patient experience from shorter cycle times and customer proximity. We have and may continue to financially invest in or explore collaborations with key ecosystem partners, including DSOs, whose missions and visions align with our own vision, strategy, business model and goals. Patient Demand. Our goal is to make the Invisalign brand a highly recognized name brand worldwide by creating awareness for Invisalign treatment among consumers and motivating the potential 600 million patients who can benefit from treatment of malocclusion to seek treatment using the Invisalign System. We accomplish this through an integrated consumer marketing strategy that includes television, media, social networking and event marketing and strategic alliances with professional sports teams, as well as educating patients on treatment options and directing them to high volume Invisalign trained doctors. To further drive consumer awareness, we continue to offer additional dental-related Invisalign Accessory Products under the Invisalign brand name available in certain e-commerce channels in the United States. The initial stage of the AlignTM Digital Platform drives consumer demand and connects potential patients to our websites and the websites of Invisalign providers. Some of the tools that support this stage are Invisalign.com, the Invisalign SmileViewTM tool, My Invisalign app, Doctor Locator, Invisalign Practice App, and Invisalign Virtual Appointment. The AlignTM Digital Platform also facilitates the doctor-patient conversation, through education regarding clinical needs and setting expectations. Some of the tools that support this stage include 11 Align Oral Health Suite, that integrates iTero diagnostic aid and visualization tools, such as iTero NIRI, iTero Occlusogram, iTero TimeLapse and Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro with multiple treatment plans. Orthodontist Utilization. We continue to innovate and increase product applicability and predictability to address a wide range of cases, from simple to complex, thereby enabling doctors to confidently diagnose and treat children and adults with the Invisalign System. This is especially important to treating teenage patients who make up the largest portion of the 22 million annual orthodontic case starts. We also continue to make improvements to our Invisalign treatment software, ClinCheck Pro, designed to deliver an exceptional user experience and increase treatment control to help doctors achieve their treatment goals. In combination with the new Invisalign System innovations that are part of the AlignTM Digital Platform, we are enhancing the digital treatment planning experience for orthodontics by providing doctors with greater flexibility, consistency of treatment preferences and real-time treatment plan access and modification capabilities. Manufacturing and Suppliers We have regional fabrication facilities in our main markets for clear aligners, which are located in Juarez, Mexico; Ziyang, China; and Wroclaw, Poland. We believe this allows us to better serve our global customer base by being closer to our doctor customers and driving efficiencies in the business. We produce our handheld intraoral scanner wand, perform final scanner assembly and repair our scanners at our facilities in Ziyang, China and Petah Tikva, Israel and also perform final scanner assembly in Blonie, Poland and Juarez, Mexico; as well as service and repair certain scanners in Juarez, Mexico. We also perform digital treatment planning and interpretation for restorative cases based on digital scans generated by our iTero intraoral scanners. Our digital treatment planning facilities are located worldwide, including in Costa Rica, China, Germany, Spain, Poland and Japan, among other international locations. Our quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA, and similar regulations of other worldwide regulatory authorities. We are certified to ISO 13485:2016, an internationally recognized standard for medical device quality. We are routinely audited by third-party certification bodies as well as global health authorities for compliance to this standard and other international regulations. We maintain a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved. Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service quality. We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed. Since the mass-customized treatment planning and manufacturing processes of our products requires substantial and varied technical expertise, we believe our manufacturing capacity and capabilities are important to our success. In order to produce our highly-customized, highly-precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies. These include complex software algorithms and solutions, including AI and machine-learning based CAD/CAM software, vision systems, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated custom clear aligner fabrication equipment. To increase the efficiency and yield of our manufacturing processes, we continue to focus our efforts on software development, equipment development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes or bottlenecks. In addition, we have invested in developing technologies that will allow us to directly print the devices that may help us improve and streamline the processes as well as the performance of devices. We continuously upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians. Moreover, to improve efficiency and increase the scale of our operations, we continue to invest in the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of clear aligners. In addition, predictable and consistent production is essential to our commitment to timely deliver products to our customers efficiently and profitably. Our production can be disrupted by such things as supply chain and shipping issues, production manufacturing software system issues, quality and safety issues, and production equipment downtime. Accordingly, as we have grown our operations, we have included flexibility and resiliency in our overall manufacturing design to mitigate the risks of production downtime. Our manufacturing facilities include backup generators and systems and each facility has an emergency response plan that is part of ongoing employee training and testing through recurring cross functional scenario-based simulation exercises. Likewise, having manufacturing facilities in key regions provides us with greater flexibility and capacity to adjust and redirect production to one or more of our production facilities as needed. As part of our manufacturing resiliency design efforts, we have also considered climate change and climate-related risks such as higher average global temperatures, rising sea levels and more frequent and severe wildfires, hurricanes, floods, winter storms, heat waves and other events and natural disasters (collectively, climate-related risks). We view climate-related risks to be one of many operational challenges we face and factor them into our business continuity planning and strategic risk mitigation efforts. 12 For instance, our manufacturing plants and operations may be impacted by extreme temperatures and weather, subjecting us to potential brownouts and blackouts, increased energy costs and capital investments needed to maintain ideal operating temperatures. Our manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico is located in an area classified as high-water stress and our operations could be impacted by water shortages, rationing and droughts. Our California, Costa Rica, Mexico and North Carolina operations are located in areas that have historically been impacted by extreme weather events such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires or flooding. In part to help mitigate risks to our manufacturing operations, we have strategically located our clear aligner production facilities in three facilities on different continents. This allows us to both respond more quickly to customer demand while also offering redundancy in the event natural disasters or climate-related events affect operations at one or more facilities. Moreover, each of our three key clear aligner manufacturing facilities are located at elevations less likely to be impacted by rising sea levels and at least two hundred miles inland. Moreover, we are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials for our clear aligners, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our intraoral scanners. We maintain single or sole source supplier relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies. In particular, our CT scanning and stereolithography equipment used in our clear aligner manufacturing and many of the critical components for the optics of our intraoral scanners are provided by single or sole source suppliers. We also currently purchase our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process for clear aligners, from a single source. A discussion of the risks of our supply and manufacturing operations, including foreign operations, may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on increasing adoption and utilization of the Invisalign System and Vivera retainers by orthodontists and GPs worldwide and integrating the iTero scanner and services and exocad CAD/CAM products into dental labs and practices. The iTero scanner is an important component to the customer experience and is central to a digital approach as well as overall customer utilization of Invisalign clear aligners. In each region, we have direct sales, marketing and support organizations, which include quota carrying sales representatives, sales management and sales administration. We also have distribution partners in certain markets. Our sales and marketing personnel are organized primarily to support orthodontists and GPs separately, allowing highly trained and specialized personnel to serve each customer channel, thereby increasing our focus and effectiveness on both. We continue to expand in existing markets through targeted investments in sales resources, professional marketing and education programs. Additionally, our consumer marketing programs are designed to create awareness and educate consumers on the benefits of Invisalign treatment and Vivera retainers, including where they can find trained doctors to provide treatment. We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 130,370 active Invisalign-trained doctors. We define doctors as active if they have submitted at least one Invisalign case in the prior 12-month period. Research and Development We are committed to investing in world-class digital technology development, which we believe is critical to achieving our goal of establishing the Invisalign System as the standard method for treating malocclusion, our iTero intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans, and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the solution of choice for dental labs. Our research and development activities are directed toward developing digital technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation of products and solutions as part of the AlignTM Digital Platform. These activities range from accelerating product and clinical innovation, to developing manufacturing process improvements, to researching future technologies, products and software. In an effort to demonstrate the broad treatment capabilities of the Invisalign System, more than 200 peer-reviewed publications and various clinical case studies and articles have been published that highlight the clinical applicability of Invisalign treatment to malocclusion cases, including addressing malocclusions of severe complexity. Similarly, various studies have also been published demonstrating the capabilities of our scanners, including advanced features such as our NIRI technology. We undertake pre-commercialization trials and testing of our technological improvements to our products and manufacturing process. We furthermore fund research in the field of orthodontics and dentistry through initiatives such as our 13 Annual Research Award Program, which was in its 15th year in 2024 and donations to the American Association of Orthodontists Foundation. Intellectual Property We believe our intellectual property portfolio represents a substantial business advantage. As of December 31, 2024, we had 1,000 active U.S. patents, 1,063 active foreign patents, and 1,012 pending global patent applications. Our active U.S. patents expire between 2025 and 2043. When patents expire, we lose the protection and competitive advantages they provide, which could negatively impact our operating results; however, as we continue to pursue new innovations, we seek intellectual property protection for new inventions and know-how through U.S. and foreign patent applications and non-disclosure agreements. We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We furthermore have a broad and diverse trademark portfolio that we use to highlight and protect our universally recognized brands. Information regarding risks associated with our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be found in Part I, Item 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Seasonal Fluctuations General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and we have historically experienced seasonal trends within our two operating segments, customer channels and the geographic locations that we serve. Sales of the Invisalign System are often weaker in Europe, especially southern European countries during the summer months and seasonally higher in China during the third quarter. Similarly, other international holidays like Lunar New Year can impact our sales in APAC in the first quarter. In North America, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients as many parents start their children in treatment before the school year begins. Conversely, many GPs are on vacation during this time and therefore tend to start fewer cases. For our Systems and Services segment, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. However, many of these typical seasonal patterns have been impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates, military conflicts, inflation and other macroeconomic challenges. It remains unclear when or if these seasonal fluctuations will return to historical norms. Consequently, seasonal trends have and may continue to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. Competition Competition in the clear aligner market continues to increase. Our clear aligner products compete directly against traditional orthodontic treatments that use metal brackets and wires and increasingly against clear aligner products manufactured and distributed by various companies, both within and outside the United States. Although the number of competitors varies by segment, product, geography and customer, they include new and well-established regional competitors in certain foreign markets, as well as larger companies, divisions of larger companies or well-capitalized new entrants with substantial sales, marketing, research and financial capabilities. We also compete with direct-to-consumer (DTC) companies that provide clear aligners directly to the consumer requiring little or no in-office care from doctors and also from doctors themselves who can manufacture retainers and custom clear aligners using 3D printing technology. In addition, corresponding foreign patents began expiring in 2018 which has increased competition outside the United States. Additionally, we face competition in the rapidly evolving markets for intraoral scanners and software solutions, including CAD/CAM. The global intraoral scanner market is very dynamic with participants spanning from traditional dental conglomerates to companies dedicated primarily to scanner development and sales with new entrants playing larger roles. The iTero intraoral scanner also competes with traditional PVS impressions that doctors use for clear aligner therapy or other dental procedures, as well as other intraoral scanners. It also competes with traditional bite wing 2D dental x-rays for detecting interproximal caries. Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. We believe we are well positioned to compete in the markets we target. We have thousands of dedicated, highly skilled sales force employees who are focused on key demographics in our target markets that allow us to uniquely address customer needs and thereby enhance the customer experience. Our significant historical and ongoing investments in research and development and design around the movement of teeth, SmartTrack aligner materials and design, intraoral scanning, 3D manufacturing, global scale of manufacturing and treatment planning, strong brand name recognition, strong workforce, diversified and knowledgeable customer base, geographic expansion, reliable financial results, leading digital platform, technology and IP, next wave of innovation with direct 3D printing and innovations powered by AI enabling more personalized care, and regulatory clearance of our products are among a few of our key competitive factors that compare favorably with our competitors products and services. 14 Government Regulations Many countries throughout the world have established regulatory frameworks for commercialization of medical devices. As a designer, manufacturer, and marketer of medical devices, we are obligated to comply with the respective frameworks of these countries to obtain and maintain access to these global markets. The frameworks often define requirements for marketing authorizations which vary by country. Failure to obtain appropriate marketing authorization and to meet all local requirements, including specific quality and safety standards and new software and AI standards in any country in which we currently market our products, could cause commercial disruption and/or subject us to sanctions and fines. Delays in receipt of, or a failure to receive, such marketing authorizations, or the loss of any previously received authorizations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With regards to premarket authorization in the United States, many of our products are classified as medical devices under the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act). The FD&C Act requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with medical device regulations defined by the FDA. The regulatory framework depends on a set of written processes for ensuring consistent quality called a Quality Management System (QMS) coupled with a product marketing authorization which depends on the risk classification of the product. This regulatory framework is comparable to the framework established in the European Union (EU). Within the EU, our products are subject to the requirements defined by the Medical Device Regulation EU 2017/745 which replaced the Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC with a final transition date of May 26, 2021. Similar market access regulations exist in Brazil, China, Japan and other countries. Our QMS is routinely audited by certification bodies as well as country regulators for compliance with applicable regulations. We believe we are in material compliance with all state, federal, and international regulatory requirements applicable to our products. We are also subject to various laws around the world that govern interactions with our customers as healthcare professionals or government officials. The laws govern different interactions and may include: prohibiting improper influence of or payments to healthcare professionals, other decision makers or purchasers of medical devices and government officials; setting out rules for when and how to engage healthcare professionals; marketing our products within the regulatory approval (e.g., on label) promotion, sale and marketing of our products and services; the importing and exporting of our products; the operation of our facilities and distribution of our products; and disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals and institutions. As we expand our operations footprint, countries to which we sell and invest in new business models, compliance with applicable laws becomes more complex and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent oversight and enforcement. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies, and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time whether these trends will impact our business or the potential cost containment measures on our future business. Our customers are healthcare providers that may be reimbursed by state or federal funded programs such as Medicaid, a foreign national healthcare program, or private pay insurance, each of which may offer some degree of oversight. As a medical device manufacturer and seller, we are subject to transparency reporting laws (also known as sunshine laws) that in certain countries and U.S. states require us to report transfers of value to healthcare professionals that perform services or receive other items from us (e.g., meals, travel, branded promotional or educational items, or other benefits of value). Enforcement actions and associated efforts to respond or defend against enforcement actions can be expensive, and any resulting findings carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. In addition, we must comply with numerous laws and regulations addressing privacy, data protection, data governance and cyber security. Many of these laws and regulations do or will soon regulate or restrict cross-border data transfers, such as in the United States, the EU, Switzerland, Brazil, China, Vietnam, Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong and other countries. Further, in the United States, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations addressing the collection, use, security and processing of protected health information and other information relating to individuals, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its implementing rules. The HIPAA Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information (Privacy Standards) and the Security Standards for the Protection of Electronic Protected Health Information under HIPAA and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH Act) (the Security Standards) are the subjects of final and proposed rule amendments, respectively, reflecting the rapidly evolving nature of these laws and regulations. Additionally, many U.S. states maintain laws and regulations addressing privacy, data protection, data governance and cybersecurity. Like many other companies, we must work to ensure our global privacy program framework incorporates applicable requirements of new and modified laws and regulations in relevant jurisdictions to support our efforts to ensure that our product innovations and our associated practices comply with these increasingly complex laws and regulations. 15 Legislatures and regulators globally are proposing, and in certain cases have enacted, new laws or regulations regarding privacy, data protection, data governance and cybersecurity that could require us to modify our policies and practices in order to comply with new and evolving obligations relating to these matters. Information regarding risks associated with data security and privacy may be found in Part I, Item 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws, including provisions that regulate the purchase, use, distribution, and environmental impact of hazardous substances used in our operations, contained within our products and the packaging associated with our products. We are also subject to environmental laws applicable to our manufacturing facilities and operations, including environmental health, safety and sustainability regulations. The number and rate at which these regulations are being proposed and implemented are increasing at the regional, country and local territorial levels, requiring greater diligence, governance and skills to manage. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with existing and new laws and regulations in the future. Information regarding risks associated with environmental laws and regulations may be found in Part I, Item 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Human Capital We believe our culture and commitment to employees provide unique value that benefits Align, its stockholders and the communities and other stakeholders we serve. Every employee, and every job, is important to our success and helps us achieve our purpose of transforming smiles and changing lives. Align is committed to building a global workforce with varied cultural backgrounds and life experiences. Fostering a culture of dignity, integrity, open dialogue, open-mindedness, compassion, fairness, recognition, and shared goals allows us to attract and retain the best talent, and provide a safe and supportive environment that allows our employees to excel. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 20,945 employees, a decrease of approximately 3.1% and 9.6% over December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. The number of employees for each of the last five years and our employees roles as of December 31, 2024 are as follows: We are fundamentally a global organization with approximately 91% of our employees located internationally, primarily in direct-labor roles in our manufacturing and clinical treatment planning facilities. Set forth in the following paragraphs are some of the most important elements of our culture and commitment to our employees. Governance. Our commitment to improving the lives of our employees and the communities in which we live and work, including conducting our business ethically, responsibly and transparently through open and clear disclosures that allow us and others to hold us accountable, begins with our Board of Directors (Board) and management team. They set the tone for our organization by establishing and clearly communicating our core values of Agility, Customer and Accountability that inform our culture. Our Global Code of Conduct (Code) and quality policies are designed to enable us to operate with integrity and deliver superior treatment outcomes and experiences to patients. We seek to create an environment that values the health, safety and well-being of our teams, and we work to equip them with the knowledge and skills to serve our business and develop their careers. We believe that by effectively managing our business with these values as the foundation, we will drive long-term value for our stockholders and all stakeholders. As part of our Boards commitment to our employees and communities, our Board has delegated oversight responsibility of our policies and practices that foster Aligns sustainability and cultural initiatives, policies, practices, and programs to our 16 Nominating and Governance Committee. Additionally, our Compensation and Human Capital Committee has oversight responsibilities of all human capital management strategies, programs and policies. Our Compensation and Human Capital Committee regularly reviews and discusses key performance indicators regarding human capital management that allow it to monitor trends on issues such as total headcount, employee hiring, recruiting, attrition, career development, compensation, benefits, workplace culture, and other measures of employee engagement and interest to management and the committee. We believe our success continues to be driven by our focus on integrating and welcoming employees across the globe and of all different backgrounds, orientations, beliefs, perspectives and capabilities into our workforce. Our employees bring a positive mix of ethnic and culturally diverse backgrounds to the 47 different countries in which we operate. Our largest population of employees work in Mexico followed by Costa Rica and China. Employees in the United States represent approximately 9% of our global population. Our management team is comprised of individuals from varying countries and nationalities who are committed to promoting and encouraging the health and well-being of our employees at work, at home and in society in general. Our work culture is designed to create financial, health, career and personal benefits for our employees and organization. We sponsor cultural recognition events to increase awareness of inclusion and belonging, including its importance in creating an environment where every employee is safe, supported and can thrive. Our employees have also established and manage employee groups including employee resource groups which are based on shared characteristics or life experiences. These are open to all employees, including those who do not directly identify with other members. Talent Recruitment and Engagement. We employ a variety of career development, employee benefits, compensation and other policies and programs designed to attract, develop and retain employees. We focus on building a talent pipeline that nurtures those early in their careers, encourages continuous learning and growth, and incentivizes employees to stay and contribute to our success over the long term. Our programs include early recruitment at high schools and universities, initiatives such as internships, co-ops, apprenticeships, and training programs, quarterly performance management check-ins focused on individual goals and commitment to values and conducting regular employee surveys to build trust and strengthen relationships. Our efforts have resulted in numerous awards for our positive work environment and culture. Some of the certifications, awards and recognitions recognized or received in 2024 and 2025 include: Best Places to Work for Women in Korea Dun & Bradstreet Top Tech Companies to Work for in Israel Great Places to Work and Best Places to Work based on our employee-validated great workplaces in the following countries, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and Raleigh, North Carolina (United States) Forbes Americas Dream Employers, Americas Best Midsize Employers, Americas Best Employers for Engineers, Americas Best Employers for New Grads Fortune, Americas Most Innovative Companies LinkedIn Top Companies, Brazil Mercer China, Healthiest Workplace Award for Outstanding Women Care Newsweek, Americas Greatest Workplaces; Greatest Workplaces for Mental Wellbeing America 17 U.S. News & World Report - Best Companies to Work For and Best Companies to Work For in the Health Care Industry We believe it is imperative to provide a vibrant employee experience and we value our employees collective voices. Accordingly, we conduct employee surveys that utilizes a continuous employee listening strategy.to collect employee feedback critical to improving our culture. This listening strategy includes globally managed pulse surveys, employee lifecycle surveys, and a self-service feature to support listening efforts. We use what we learn from the surveys to improve the employee experience, including enhancements to our workplaces, focus on employee connections, increased career development opportunities, support for relocated employees, and growth in our recognition programs and experiences. Our global response rates are consistently high, reflecting strong engagement by our employees. Training and Professional Development. Training is an integral part of developing and retaining our employees and creating a culture of leadership within Align. Training at Align begins with our Code and our strong commitment to ethical business practices in all aspects of our operations. Every employee and contractor is required to review the Code and confirm they understand and will comply with it. We routinely reference the Code in presentations and as part of everyday operations. As a further part of our standard onboarding program, we train employees on important environmental health and safety topics to protect them and the environment. As a general practice, employees are trained to perform their jobs in accordance with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and that training is routinely refreshed and re-administered. At Align, we believe employees learn best when skill development is driven by the changing and immediate needs of our employees and by empowering all employees to take action and ownership of their careers. We also believe learning should be relevant and actionable as well as rooted in our purpose and values. Develop@Align enables our global employee population to access a diverse portfolio of approximately 1,800 self-directed courses in up to 80 languages. We also offer a full suite of custom leadership development programs, beginning with aspiring leaders, continuing with managers and directors, and culminating with executive development opportunities. We also recognize we must continually evolve by providing employees with the resources they need to continue to learn, grow, and thrive. To this end, we created Voyage. Voyage is a global initiative that offers a set of tools, resources and a new mindset, empowering employees to start thinking differently about career growth by embracing development opportunities in new and sometimes unexpected ways. Our Voyage Compass helps employees experience their career through four distinct lenses: Self, Networks, Experience and Skills. Since its launch in 2022, over 45% of the population has interacted with Voyage, and there have been over 140,000 visits to the Voyage website. In addition to our navigation site, we annually host two Voyage Set Sail weeks, where we offer experiential learning for individuals and teams utilizing activities that keep professional development front and center in employees minds. Compensation and Benefits. Our benefit and compensation programs reflect the value and contributions our employees make. In addition to competitive base pay, we offer an assortment of benefits that vary by country, roles and contributions, including performance-based variable compensation programs, health and welfare benefit plans, retirement planning services and benefits, holiday and leave policies, equity participation programs such as our 2005 Annual Incentive Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and charitable and community service opportunities. We also offer discounts to our employees and their dependents who undergo Invisalign treatment. We are furthermore committed to pay equity practices. We exceed minimum pay requirements for our manufacturing employees and regularly review our pay equity practices globally and locally to address discrepancies. Health, Wellness and Safety. Our employees health and well-being is critical to our success and their continuing achievements. We therefore offer a wide variety of robust programs and initiatives designed to promote the overall health and welfare of all our employees and their families. Every year, we sponsor the Month of Wellness, a month dedicated to well-being and a worldwide movement fostering employee health across our organization. Throughout the Month of Wellness, employees participate in a variety of activities such as informational sessions and health fairs and receive useful resources aligned to our wellness pillars - mental resilience, physical well-being and healthy living, social/family connections, and financial wellness. This provides employees with a variety of meaningful ways to embrace wellness and well-being through mindfulness, meditation, nutrition and mental wellness activities, exercise, hikes, yoga, volunteer activities, financial education sessions, social events and stress management. Additionally, a primary objective is to prevent injuries and occupational diseases by focusing first and foremost on creating and maintaining safe environments. We have environmental, health, safety and sustainability personnel who are 18 responsible for ensuring health and safety programs and processes are maintained and effective at each of our locations. Major worksites, such as our clear aligner fabrication sites, and large offices have dedicated Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) departments which are dedicated to ensuring our health and safety programs are maintained while contributing Best Management Practices and general input to corporate-wide programs. Each EHS department is responsible for ensuring all employees at their location are properly trained on various EHS topics and at the appropriate frequencies. A training suite is determined for each employee depending on their responsibilities and function modeled off ISO 45001. Community. We actively encourage employees to support charitable organizations by providing opportunities for volunteerism, team building, and donation and matching programs. In 2024, our employees continued to make us proud through their generosity and dedication, especially during our annual Month of Smiles initiative in October where we encourage them to make a difference individually and as teams through volunteer activities, charitable donations, fundraising, and intentional acts of goodness. In addition, through our Align Foundation, we support organizations whose visions closely align with our mission to improve smiles, supporting and educating teens, and empowering our customers through partnerships with learning institutions and foundations. Below are some of our key community initiatives in 2024: Since 2013 we have been a proud supporter of Operation Smile, a global medical nonprofit that has provided hundreds of thousands of free surgeries for people born with cleft lips and cleft palates in low and middle-income countries. For the fourth year, we sponsored Operation Smiles International Student Leadership Conference, a powerful opportunity for youth in high schools and colleges around the world to develop leadership skills and impact their communities. As part of our 2024 sponsorship, we provided full scholarships for 74 participants and students personally impacted with a cleft condition. In addition, we covered a portion of the conference fee for all students to make this opportunity more accessible for all attendees. As of December 31, 2024, we had donated approximately $3.0 million to Operation Smile. As part of Aligns commitment to improving oral health, we partnered with the INCAE Business School as they relaunched the CAHI Jeffe Fellowship in Health and Innovation to improve health services in Latin America. The CAHI Jeffe Fellowship brought together 23 leaders from six Latin American countries and focused on enhancing the quality, accessibility, and affordability of health services through a variety of programs. Align provided scholarships to two leaders from the program who focused on oral health education and expansion of dental health for low-income populations. For 17 years we have supported Americas ToothFairy, an organization with a mission to ensure underserved children in the United States have access to dental care and learn about oral health by supporting nonprofit clinics and community partners. As of December 31, 2024, we have provided almost $2 million for the foundations operational expenses and childrens oral health programs. As Title Sponsor of the HERO Program since 2019, we have helped the program reach an estimated 2.7 million children, caregivers, and parents. During Americas ToothFairys 2024 fiscal year, which ended June 30th, the HERO Program positively impacted more than 900,000 children and caregivers, including: More than 600,000 children33,500 of whom speak a language other than Englishwho were reached with downloadable resources accessed from AmericasToothFairy.org, 43,250 children taught with ToothFairy 101 Community Education Kits distributed to educators, public health workers, and oral health professionals, and Nearly 268,000 people who were reached through two sponsored awareness campaigns that included educational materials and social media kits. We also provide product donations to the dental community to help patients in need of healthy, beautiful smiles. For more information on our charitable and community efforts, please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility portion of our corporate website located at https://www.aligntech.com/about/corporate_social_responsibility. Available Information Our corporate website address is www.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website address is http://investor.aligntech.com. The information on or accessible through either of these websites is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the above references to these website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders meeting and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Further, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings with the SEC. 19 Information about our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 28, 2025: Name Age Position Period Joseph M. Hogan 67 President and Chief Executive Officer of Align Chief Executive Officer of ABB Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare 2015-Present 2008-2013 2000-2008 John F. Morici 58 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Finance of Align Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Global Finance of Align Chief Financial Officer of Align EVP and Managing Director of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment CFO/Chief Operating Officer of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment 2022-Present 2018-2022 2016-2018 2014-2016 2011-2014 2007-2011 Julie Coletti 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer of Align Senior Vice President, Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer of Align Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Strategic Commercial Affairs of Align Vice President, Global General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Danaher Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary of Bayer HealthCare's MEDRAD/Radiology and Interventional Division 2022-Present 2019-2022 2018-2019 2013-2017 2007-2013 Stuart Hockridge 53 Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources of Align Senior Vice Present, Global Human Resources of Align Vice President, Global Human Resources of Align Vice President of Talent of Visa 2022-Present 2018-2022 2016-2018 2013-2016 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, or that we currently believe to be immaterial. including those described below. When any one or more of these risks materialize from time to time, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price can be materially and adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our results of operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Therefore, you should review this section carefully, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and other information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for important information regarding these and other risks that may affect us. Additionally, you should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Macroeconomic and External Risks Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend on global and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in consumer confidence and demand, general economic weakness and actual or potential slowdowns or recessions have and could in the future materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Macroeconomic conditions impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can adversely affect demand for our products. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, consumer confidence, general economic weakness, actual or potential slowdowns or recessions, pandemics, wars and military actions, employment levels, wages, debt obligations, discretionary income, interest rates, volatility in capital and perceptions of current and future economic conditions. Macroeconomic conditions can, among other things, reduce or shift spending away from elective procedures, drive patients to pursue less costly orthodontic treatments, decrease the number of orthodontic case starts, reduce patient traffic in dentists offices, or reduce demand for dental services generally. Further, decreased demand for dental services can cause dentists and labs to postpone investments in capital equipment, such as intraoral scanners and CAD/CAM equipment and software. The declines in, or uncertain economic outlooks for, the United States, Chinese, European and certain other international economies have and could in the future materially adversely affect consumer and dental practice spending. Increases in the cost of fuel and energy, food and other essential items as well as higher interest 20 rates have and could in the future reduce consumers disposable income, which could cause a decrease in discretionary spending for our products. Inflation has and may continue to adversely impact spending and trade activities, and may unpredictably impact global and regional economies. Efforts by central banks and federal, state and local governments to combat inflation could result in an economic recession or slowdown or adversely impact consumer spending for a prolonged period of time. Higher inflation has and may continue to increase domestic and international shipping costs, raw material prices and labor rates, which could adversely impact the costs of producing, procuring and shipping our products. Our products or one or more of the materials or components of our products may also be subject to tariffs imposed by the United States or other countries. We may not be able to fully mitigate the impact of the increased costs or pass price increases on to our customers, resulting in downward pressure on our operating results. Attempts to offset cost increases with price increases may reduce sales, increase customer dissatisfaction or otherwise harm our reputation. Any of these events could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have significant international operations and sales and are therefore exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies that have and may continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a large portion of our net revenues and expenses are generated in foreign currencies. While we forecast our balance sheet exposures to foreign currency fluctuations and utilize foreign currency forward contracts to moderate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, these contracts may not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have and may continue to materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impacted by geopolitical events, tariffs, trade and international disputes, wars, military actions and terrorism, or major public health crises. Geopolitical events, tariffs, trade and international disputes, wars, military actions and terrorism, or major public health crises have and could in the future harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could materially adversely affect our business with our customers and consumers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors and other business partners. Such events have and could result in, among other things, supply chain and trade disruptions, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, new tariffs and retaliatory tariffs, trade protection measures, trade sanctions, customs inquiries or restrictions, boycotts, reduced consumer spending, government shut downs, cyberattacks, energy shortages or power outages, energy rationing that adversely impacts our manufacturing facilities, rising fuel or rising costs of producing, procuring, and shipping our products, constraints, volatility or disruption in the financial markets, deaths or injuries to our employees, restrictions and shortages of food, water, shelter and medical supplies, data or information exchange, disruptions, interruptions or limitations in telecommunication services, critical systems or applications reliant on a stable and uninterrupted communications infrastructure, and protests that may impact delivery of our products to customers or destruction of property. Tariffs or proposed tariffs, such as those on Chinese, Mexican, Canadian or other foreign goods, and any retaliatory trade measures in response may increase the cost of our products and the components and raw materials used to make them. Specifically, we manufacture clear aligners in our facility in Mexico and ship them to the United States, primarily for our United States customers with the remainder eventually shipping to other international locations. Tariffs would result in additional costs for our products, which may impact operating margin, reduce demand for our products and adversely impact our gross margin. Foreign countries may also adopt or rescind other measures, such as controls on the import or export of goods, technology or data, including personal data, that could adversely impact our operations and supply chains or limit our ability to offer certain products and services. These measures could require us to take various actions, including changing suppliers, where we manufacture our products, or restructuring business relationships. Complying with new or revised trade restrictions may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our logistics and operations, and more costly for us and our customers. Such restrictions may be announced with little or no advance notice and we may be unable to effectively mitigate any adverse impacts in a timely manner or at all. Military conflicts have and may in the future materially adversely impact the economies in which we operate. Our iTero operations, headquartered in Israel, are close to areas that have been affected by ongoing violence and military action, which may impact our employees and our iTero business and operations. Some employees and consultants in Israel have been called for military service in the current conflict and they may be absent for certain periods of time. Furthermore, our facilities may be damaged or our manufacturing capability or delivery schedules may be impacted as a result of the ongoing conflict. Our supply chains and demand for our products could be impaired as a result of hostilities, export and import restrictions, sanctions or boycotts. These events could disrupt ongoing operations and may materially impact the logistics, timing and cost of shipping of our products and materials or our ability to operate out of impacted areas. Additionally, Chinas territorial conflicts with other neighboring countries may impact our operations and sales in China. We cannot predict the progress or outcome of these events or the reactions by governments, businesses or consumers and each event could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations may be impacted by natural disasters, which may become more frequent or severe as a result of climate change, and may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as those of our customers and consumers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors and other business partners. 21 Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, droughts, hurricanes, wildfires, urban fires and extreme weather conditions can cause deaths, injuries and major public health crises, power outages, property damage, restrictions and shortages of food, water, shelter and medical supplies, telecommunications failures, materials scarcity, price volatility and other adverse consequences. If a natural disaster occurs in a region where one of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers are located, our or their employees or facilities could be impacted, valuable research could be lost, and our ability to create treatment plans, respond to customer inquiries or manufacture and ship our products could be compromised, causing significant delays and reputational harm. Climate change could increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters and could change the supply, demand or availability of sources of energy or resources material to manufacturing our products and operations. It could also affect the availability or cost of materials, goods, and services on which we and our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors and other business partners rely, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business and Industry Risks Demand for our products and services may not increase or may decrease for many reasons, including resistance to the innovative and business-model-disruptive nature of some of our products and services, which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and services require our customers and consumers to forego traditional treatment methods. For example, Invisalign treatment is a significant departure from traditional orthodontic wires and brackets, and our customers and consumers may not find it cost-effective or preferable. A number of dental professionals believe Invisalign treatment is only appropriate for a limited percentage of patients. Additionally, our clear aligners and iTero products utilize digital technology and some dental professionals have and may continue to resist moving to a digital platform. Increased acceptance of our products and services depends in part on the recommendations of dental professionals, professional associations, societies and organizations, as well as other factors, including efficacy, safety, ease of use, reliability, aesthetics, third-party reimbursement and price compared to competing products and traditional treatment methods. If demand for our products or services fails to increase, or decreases, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our net revenues depend primarily on sales of the Invisalign System and iTero intraoral scanners and declines in sales or the average selling price (ASP) of these products may adversely affect net revenues, gross profit, and net income. Our net revenues are primarily dependent on sales of the Invisalign System and iTero intraoral scanners. Of the two, we expect the Invisalign System to continue to represent the majority of our net revenues, making sales of it critical to our success. The ASPs of our products, particularly the Invisalign System, are influenced by numerous factors, including the mix of product treatment packages, geographical mix, channel mix and timing of products sold (particularly the timing and quantity of orders for additional clear aligners for certain Invisalign products) and foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we sell our products at different prices and with varying shipping and handling charges or processing fees that may differ by country. Our ASPs for the Invisalign System and iTero intraoral scanners have been and could in the future be adversely affected if: we offer promotions or general or volume-based discount programs, product or services bundles, large account sales or consumer rebate programs; participation in promotions or programs unexpectedly increases, decreases or changes demand in material ways; our geographic, channel or product mix shifts to lower-priced products or to products with a higher percentage of deferred revenue; we decrease prices or are unable to increase prices on one or more products or services in response to increasing competitive pricing pressures; we introduce new or change existing products or services, or modify how we market or sell any of our new or existing products or services; we modify our pricing strategies for certain products or adjust pricing for certain items based on cancellation fees, shipping and handling charges or processing fees; we participate in government tenders, such as volume-based procurement in China; or our critical accounting estimates materially differ from actual results. To stimulate product and services demand, we have a history of offering volume discounts, price reductions, and other promotions to targeted customers and consumers and releasing lower priced products. These promotional campaigns and lower-priced products have had, and may in the future have, unexpected and unintended consequences, including reduced net revenues, gross margins, operating margin and net income, ASPs and volume. Competition in the markets for our products and services is increasing and we expect aggressive competition from existing competitors, other companies that introduce new technologies, products or services in the future, and customers who alone or with others create orthodontic appliances and solutions or other products or services that compete with us. The dental industry is experiencing immense and rapid digital transformation. While solutions such as the Invisalign System, iTero intraoral scanners, CAD/CAM software and digital platform facilitate this transition, we face competition from companies that seek to introduce new technologies and products and companies that remain dedicated to traditional products. We may be unable to compete with these competitors or they may render our technology or products obsolete or economically 22 unattractive, particularly as competitors incorporate AI and machine learning into new or existing services and technologies that facilitate changes in doctor-patient interactions, expectations and treatment workflows. We may be unable to devote adequate financial resources to develop or acquire new AI technologies and systems in the future and sufficiently meet evolving industry trends and consumer demands. The number and types of competitors we face are diverse and growing rapidly. The Invisalign System competes primarily against traditional wires and brackets and increasingly with clear aligners manufactured and distributed by new market entrants and existing competitors, including traditional medical device companies, laboratories, startups and, in some cases, doctors and DSOs. Our competitors also include DTC companies that provide clear aligners using a business model requiring little or no in-office care from trained and licensed doctors, and doctors and DSOs who manufacture custom aligners in their offices using 3D printing technology. Large consumer product companies may also start supplying orthodontic products. Orthodontists, GPs and DSOs have and may continue to sample competitive and alternative products and take advantage of competitive promotions and sale opportunities. Our iTero intraoral scanners are also facing increased competition from new and existing competitors. Our scanners compete with polyvinyl siloxane impressions and numerous new or existing intraoral scanners, as well as traditional bite wing 2D dental x-rays for detecting interproximal caries. We have and may continue to experience competition with our scanners by competitors who introduce products at lower prices or with functionality that better meets customer demand. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing products, existing competitors, new market entrants, or respond effectively to new technologies, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop, introduce, achieve market acceptance of, and manage new or improved products and services. Our success depends on our ability to quickly and profitably develop, manufacture, market, and obtain and maintain regulatory approval or clearance of new, improved or refurbished products and services. We cannot assure successful development, sales or acceptance of our products and services. The extent and rate at which our new, improved or refurbished products or services achieve market acceptance and penetration depends on many factors, including our ability to: successfully predict, timely innovate, develop, and launch new or improved technologies, applications, features, products and services to meet market demand and keep pace with changes in technology, customers demands and industry standards; successfully and timely obtain regulatory approval or clearance of new or improved products or services from government agencies such as the FDA and analogous agencies in other countries; cost-effectively and efficiently develop, manufacture, quality test, market, dispose of and sell new or improved products and services, including localized versions for international markets; properly forecast the amount and timing of new or improved product and services demand; allocate our research and development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; ensure the compatibility of our technology, services and systems with those of our customers; anticipate and rapidly innovate in response to new competitive offerings and technologies; differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors as well as other products and services in our own portfolio and successfully articulate the benefits to potential customers; design and manufacture products that achieve the clinical and practice outcomes we believe necessary for market acceptance; manage the impact of nationalism or initiatives encouraging consumer purchases from domestic vendors; qualify for third-party reimbursement for procedures involving our products or services; offer attractive and competitive products, services and subscription plans; encourage customers to adopt new or improved technologies and provide the needed technical, sales and marketing support to make new or improved product and services launches successful; manage government procurement program restrictions; and source and receive quality raw materials or parts from our suppliers. If we fail to accurately predict the needs and preferences of customers and their patients, or fail to offer viable products or services, we may invest heavily in research and development that does not lead to significant revenues. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new or improved products and services, we may incur substantial costs doing so and our profitability may suffer. Introduction and acceptance of any products and services may take significant time and effort, particularly if they require doctor education and training to understand their benefits or doctors choose to withhold judgment on a product until patients complete their treatments. In addition, we periodically introduce new business and sales initiatives to meet customers needs and demands. In general, our internal resources support these initiatives without clear indications they will prove successful or be without short-term execution challenges. Should these initiatives fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. 23 We may invest in or acquire other businesses, products, technologies or other assets which may require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have and may in the future acquire, or make investments in, companies, technologies or other assets. Alternatively, we may be unable to find suitable investment or acquisition opportunities or be unable to complete investments or acquisitions on favorable terms. If we make such investments or complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve desired synergies and integration. Investments or acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively and may lead to negative ratings by analysts or investors, or give rise to stockholder objections or activism, which could disrupt our operations or harm our stock price. Moreover, to the extent we make strategic investments, the companies in which we invest may fail or we may ultimately own less than a majority of the outstanding shares of the company and be unable to control or have significant influence over critical issues that could harm the value of our investment. We are subject to various risks when making a strategic investment or acquisition and integrating the operations and cultures of acquired businesses within our own, which could materially impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, including that we may: fail to perform proper due diligence and inherit unexpected material issues or assets, including intellectual property (IP) or other litigation or ongoing investigations, accounting irregularities or compliance liabilities; fail to comply with regulations, governmental orders or decrees; experience information technology (IT) security and privacy compliance issues; invest in companies that generate net losses or are slow or fail to develop; not realize a positive return on our investment or determine that investments have declined in value, which could potentially require recording impairments; need to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock; find it difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial reporting, forecasting and budgeting, accounting, billing, IT and other systems due to inconsistencies in standards, internal controls, procedures and policies; require significant time and resources to effectuate the integration; fail to retain key personnel or harm our existing culture or the culture of an acquired entity; not realize material portions of the expected synergies and benefits of the investment or acquisition; or unsuccessfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or acquired companys know-how or fail to successfully integrate the technologies acquired. Operational Risks Our operating results have and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which makes predicting the timing and amount of customer demand and our revenues, costs, and expenditures difficult. Our quarterly and annual operating results have and will continue to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Some of the factors that have and could in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate include: changes in consumer and doctor demand; changes in manufacturing, packaging, delivery and inventory costs; the creditworthiness, liquidity and solvency of our customers and their ability to timely make payments when due; our ability to collect payments; our acceptance of longer customer payment cycles; changes in the timing of revenue recognition and our ASPs; seasonal fluctuations; geographic, channel or product mix shifts to lower priced products or to products with a higher percentage of deferred revenue; improvements to or changes in our products, capabilities or technologies that replace or shorten the life cycles of legacy products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing legacy products until new products become available; changes in costs and expenditures, including in connection with new treatment planning and fabrication facilities and the hiring and deployment of personnel; the timing of clear aligner treatment order submissions, acceptance, processing and fulfillment, which can cause fluctuations in our backlog; and timing and fluctuation of spending around marketing and brand awareness campaigns and industry trade shows. If we fail to accurately predict product demand, we may not have the appropriate level of our manufacturing capacity or that of one or more of our suppliers, staffing, materials, components, space, equipment or finished products. Specifically, our manufacturing process relies on sophisticated computer software and requires new technicians to undergo a long training process, often 120 days or longer. Additionally, production levels for our iTero intraoral scanners are generally based on forecasts and historic demand and we often place orders with suppliers for materials, components, sub-assemblies and finished products weeks or more in advance of projected orders. If we do not hire and train the appropriate number of technicians in anticipation of demand, our costs and expenditures may not align with our revenues or revenue growth. Additionally, to secure supplies for production of products, we periodically enter into non-cancelable minimum purchase commitments with vendors, 24 which could impact our ability to adjust inventory for declining demand. In addition, we may be required to purchase or lease additional or larger facilities and equipment to manage demand. If we fail to timely manufacture and deliver products to meet demand, this could damage our relationships with existing customers or harm our ability to attract new customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may make business decisions that adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policies and payment terms, promotions, development efforts, product releases, business structure or operations. The majority of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on expectations for future revenues. As a result, if our net revenues for a particular period are below expectations, we may be unable to timely or effectively reduce spending to offset any shortfalls. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry, financial analysts or investors. We are subject to operating risks, including excess or constrained capacity and operational inefficiencies, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to operating risks, including excess or constrained capacity, operational inefficiencies and pressure on our internal systems, personnel and suppliers. To manage current and anticipated future operations effectively, we must continually implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, hire, train, motivate, manage and retain employees, and ensure our suppliers remain diverse and capable of meeting demand for the systems, raw materials, parts and components essential to product manufacturing and delivery. We may fail to balance near-term efforts to meet existing demand with future demand, including adding personnel, creating scalable, secure and robust systems and operations, and automating processes for long-term efficiencies. Production of the Invisalign System and iTero intraoral scanners could also be limited by capacity constraints due to a variety of factors, including labor shortages, shipping delays, our dependency on third-party vendors for key materials, parts, components and equipment, the quality of or changes in product components, and limited production yields. Any such failure could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have established treatment planning and manufacturing facilities closer to our international customers to provide better experiences, create efficiencies and provide redundancy should other facilities become unavailable. If one of these facilities is temporarily, partially or fully shut down, we may be unable to timely fulfill orders, which may negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our IT systems are critical to our business. Issues with IT system and software integration, implementation, updates, and upgrades, or third-party software have previously and could again in the future disrupt our operations and have a material impact on our business, our reputation, and operating results. We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted, and secure operation of complex IT systems and are dependent on key third-party software embedded in IT systems as well as third-party hosted IT systems to support our operations, including third-party cloud platforms. All software and IT systems are vulnerable to damage, cybersecurity attacks, or interruptions or other disruptions from a variety of sources, including rapidly developing AI technologies. To effectively manage and improve our operations, our IT systems and applications require an ongoing commitment of significant expenditures and resources to maintain, protect, upgrade, enhance, and restore existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, including privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations,increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats, and changing customer preferences. Usage of online and hosted technology platforms by us, our customers, and suppliers, including remote working, teledentistry, and new or expanded use of online service platforms, products, and solutions such as doctor, consumer, and patient apps have increased the demands on and risks to our IT systems and personnel. Moreover, we continue to transform business processes, extend established processes to new subsidiaries, and implement additional functionality in our enterprise resource planning, product development, manufacturing, and other software and IT systems. This entails certain risks, including operational disruptions, such as our ability to continue developing and updating products while addressing safety and security, track orders and timely ship products, manage our supply chain, and aggregate financial and operational data. Failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our products and IT systems and those of our suppliers and customers may materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we continuously upgrade and issue new software releases upon which customer facing manufacturing and treatment planning operations depend. Software applications and products containing software may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or released. The discovery of a defect, error, or security vulnerability in our products, software applications or IT systems, incompatibility with customers computer operating systems and hardware configurations with a new release or upgraded version or the failure of our products or primary IT systems, which we are unable to cure in a timely fashion, may cause adverse consequences. These may include delays or loss of revenues, significant remediation costs, market acceptance delays, data damage, loss, or unavailability, unintended disclosure or other processing of financial, health or other information relating to individuals, product recalls, loss of market share or increased service costs, any of which could have a material effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of our operations and the operations of our customers or our business partners. Products in our Systems and Services segment, such as our iTero intraoral scanners, are subject to software and hardware risks that, if improperly managed, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. 25 The success of our Systems and Services segment depends on the quality and reliability of our products. We face software and hardware risks related to the manufacturing, design, quality and safety of our complex, global installed base of iTero intraoral scanners, which are continually updated to add, expand, or improve features with new hardware we manufacture or components that we source, to integrate new or existing software or other components manufactured by third parties, or to provide repair or replacement parts, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. We may be unable to ensure that third party components or changes to them will be completely compatible with our iTero intraoral scanners, which could result in failures of our iTero intraoral scanners to perform as anticipated. Additionally, the third-party software integrated into or interoperable with our iTero intraoral scanners will routinely reach end of life, and as a consequence, certain applications and models may be exposed to additional vulnerabilities, including security risks, errors, and malfunctions that may be irreparable or difficult to repair. We may not timely and adequately remediate or implement corrective measures for such failures, including due to reliance on third-party providers or suppliers. Consequently, any remediation may be time-consuming and difficult to achieve, which may materially impact our customers and business partners, damage our reputation, and result in lost business and revenue opportunities, and could be materially costly. If our products experience component aging, errors, or performance problems, or do not otherwise satisfy our stringent quality processes and controls we may choose to or be compelled to recall certain products, which may include, product withdrawals from the market, labeling changes, design changes, customer notifications, and notifications to global regulatory bodies. A significant portion of our clear aligner production is dependent on digital scans from our globally dispersed and decentralized installed base of iTero and third-party intraoral scanners. Failures of all or any portion of our or third-party software or other components or systems to interoperate with iTero or third-party intraoral scanners, termination of interoperability with third-party intraoral scanners, malware or ransomware attacks, product or system vulnerabilities or defects, interference or disruptions for us, our customers, labs or other business partners in the use of our products or the transmission or processing of data needed for the use or ordering of our products, or system outages, regardless of cause, have harmed our operations previously and in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to accept scans, manufacture clear aligners or restorative procedures or treatments and services, or otherwise service our customers. Any of these events could harm our sales, damage our reputation, adversely impact our strategic partners, or result in claims, demands, litigation, and liabilities, which could have a material effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of our operations and the operations of our customers or business partners. We are highly dependent on third-party suppliers, some of whom are sole source suppliers, for certain key machines, components and materials, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if supply is restricted or ends or the price materially increases. We are highly dependent on our supply chain, particularly manufacturers of specialized and customized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our iTero intraoral scanners. We maintain single and sole supply relationships for many of these machines and materials. By using single and sole suppliers in limited locations for materials and manufacturing, we are exposed to multiple supply chain vulnerabilities. We are reliant upon manufacturers that we contract with for quality and stability and any failures on their part may have an impact on our ability to supply our products. Because of our dependence on our suppliers, changes in key relationships can materially disrupt our supply chain. For instance, we may be unable to quickly establish or qualify replacement suppliers, which could create production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. Finding substitute manufacturers may be expensive, time-consuming or impossible and could result in significant interruptions in the supply of one or more products, product retesting or additional product registration, causing us to lose revenues and damage customer relationships. Technology changes by our service providers, vendors and other third parties could disrupt access to required manufacturing capacity or require expensive, time-consuming development efforts to adapt and integrate new equipment or processes. In the event of technology changes, delivery delays, labor stoppages or shortages, or increases in price for these items, sales may decrease and our business and prospects may be harmed. We use distributors for a portion of the importation, marketing and sales of our products and services, which exposes us to risks to our sales, operations and reputation, including the risk these distributors do not comply with applicable laws or our internal procedures. In addition to our direct sales force, we have and expect to continue to use distributors to import, market, sell, service and support our products and services. Our distribution agreements are generally non-exclusive and terminable by either party with customary notice. If alternative distributors cannot be quickly found and trained in the use, marketing, sales and support of our products and services, our revenues and ability to sell or service our products and services in key markets could be adversely affected. These distributors may also choose to sell alternative or competing products or services. In addition, we may be held responsible for the actions of these distributors, their employees and agents for compliance with laws and regulations, including fair competition, bribery and corruption, import and export compliance, safety, data privacy, false advertising or unfair and deceptive trade practices, and marketing and sales activities. The conduct of these distributors may impact our reputation and brand and if they fail to satisfy customers, our reputation and brand loyalty could be harmed. A distributor may also affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if it holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance or prevents us from taking control of any such authorization. It may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance. 26 A disruption in the operations of a primary freight carrier, higher shipping costs or shipping delays could disrupt our supply chain and impact our operating and financial results. We depend on commercial freight carriers, primarily United Parcel Service, Inc., to deliver our products. If the operations of commercial freight carriers are disrupted or we fail to mitigate any disruptions, we may be unable to timely deliver products to our customers who may choose alternative products, causing our net revenues and gross margin to decline, possibly materially. Moreover, when fuel costs increase, our freight costs generally do as well. In addition, we earn an increasingly larger portion of our total revenues from international sales, which carry higher shipping costs that negatively impact our gross margin and results of operations. If freight costs materially increase and we are unable to successfully pass all or significant portions of the increases along to our customers, or we cannot otherwise offset such increases, our gross margin and financial results could be materially affected. Our success depends on our personnel. If we cannot attract, motivate, train or retain personnel, it will be difficult to achieve our strategic priorities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on the talent and efforts of our personnel. We strive to retain our personnel by providing competitive compensation and benefits, development opportunities and training, flexible work options and an inclusive corporate culture. However, competition for highly-skilled personnel, particularly technical and digital talent, is intense, and our competitors have and are likely to continue to recruit our personnel. Our compensation and benefit arrangements may not successfully attract new personnel or retain and motivate existing personnel. In addition, other internal and external factors can impact our ability to hire and retain talent, including insufficient advancement or career opportunities, in office or hybrid work policies and restrictive immigration policies. The loss of any key personnel, particularly executive management, research and development, or sales personnel, could harm our business and prospects and impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. We provide significant training to our personnel and our business will be harmed if our training fails to properly prepare them to perform the work required, we are unable to successfully instill technical expertise in new and existing personnel, or if our techniques prove unsuccessful or are not cost-effective. Moreover, for certain roles, this training and experience can make key personnel, such as our sales personnel, highly desirable to competitors and lead to increased attrition. It can take 12 months or more to train sales representatives to successfully market and sell our products and services and for them to establish strong customer relationships. The loss of the services and knowledge of our highly-skilled personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development, operational or strategic objectives. Additionally, seamless leadership transitions for key positions are critical to sustaining our culture and organizational success. If our succession planning is ineffective, it could adversely impact our business. We continually assess key personnel we believe are essential to our long-term success. Moreover, future organizational changes may cause attrition rates to increase. If we fail to effectively manage any organizational or strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate, and retain key personnel, may be adversely affected. We have adopted a hybrid work schedule in many of our offices, allowing employees to collaborate and connect with others several days each week while providing the option to work remotely other days. This hybrid work approach may create challenges with maintaining our corporate culture, employee satisfaction, and hiring, promotion and retention. We believe a key to our success has been the culture we have created that emphasizes a shared vision and core values of Agility, Customer and Accountability. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulties attracting and retaining personnel that meet the qualifications, experience, compliance mindset and values we expect. If we cannot attract and retain personnel that meet our selection criteria or relax our standards, our corporate culture, ability to achieve our strategic objectives and our compliance with obligations under our internal controls and other requirements may be harmed. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to maintain market share. We have personnel represented by works councils and trade unions in certain countries and others that may be or may become eligible to be represented by works councils, trade unions and other employee associations. Labor disputes and work stoppages involving our personnel may disrupt our operations and could materially impact our results or operations. We depend on our marketing activities to deepen our market penetration and raise awareness of our brands, products, and services, which may prove unsuccessful or may become less effective or more costly to maintain in the long term. Our marketing efforts and costs are significant and include national and regional campaigns in multiple countries involving television, print, social media and alliances with professional sports teams, social media influencers and other strategic partners. There is no assurance our advertising campaigns will achieve the desired returns on advertising spend, increase brand, product or services awareness sufficiently or generate goodwill and positive reputational goals, or that we will be able to maintain commercial relationships with social media influencers and other strategic partners. Moreover, should any entity or individual endorsing us, our products or services take actions, make or publish statements in support of, or lend support to events or causes which are perceived by a portion of society negatively, our sponsorships or support of these entities or individuals may be questioned, our products and services boycotted and our reputation harmed, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 In addition, many countries prohibit certain types of marketing activities. For example, some countries restrict direct to consumer advertising of medical devices. We have and may in the future be alleged to violate marketing restrictions and be ordered to stop certain marketing activities or prevented from selling our products and services. Moreover, competitors do not always follow these restrictions, which can create an unfair advantage and make it more difficult and costly to compete. Additionally, we rely heavily on data generated from our campaigns to target specific audiences and evaluate their effectiveness, particularly data generated from internet activities on mobile devices. To obtain this data, we are dependent on third parties and popular mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products and standards we do not control, such as the Android and iOS operating systems, and mobile browsers. Changes in such systems that degrade or eliminate our ability to target or measure the results of ads or increase costs to target audiences could adversely affect our campaigns. Operating systems could also include data privacy settings that may limit our ability to interpret, target and measure ads effectively. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks We are subject to antitrust and competition regulations, litigation and enforcement that may result in fines, penalties, restrictions on our business practices, and product, services or operational changes which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently are and may in the future be subject to antitrust, competition or unfair competition-related investigations, enforcement actions or claims by governmental agencies, competitors, consumers, customers and others which, even if unfounded, could cause us to incur substantial costs, enter into settlements, consent decrees, be subject to judgments, involve negative publicity and divert management time and attention, which may materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Resolving these matters may require us to change our business practices in materially adverse ways. Governments and regulators are actively developing new competition laws and regulations aimed at the technology sector, AI and digital platforms, and global activities and expansion, including in large markets such as the United States, the European Union, and China. Government regulatory actions and court decisions may result in fines or hinder our ability to provide certain benefits to our customers and consumers, reducing the attractiveness of our products, services and the net revenue derived from them. These actions and decisions may also hinder our ability to pursue certain mergers, acquisitions, business combinations, investments or other transactions. Failure to obtain or maintain approvals or comply with regulations regarding our products or services or those of our suppliers could materially harm our sales, result in substantial penalties and fines, interrupt our supply chain and cause harm to our reputation. We and many of our healthcare provider customers, suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulations under numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws, including those regulating: the storage, transmission, disclosure, and other processing of, and security measures with respect to, personal, financial and medical information as well as healthcare records; processing and use of childrens personal and health data; websites and application advertising, including that involving the use of cookies or involving the collection, use, disclosure, or other processing of data relating to individuals for marketing purposes; prohibitions against the offer, payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals to entities providing healthcare services or goods or to induce the order, purchase or recommendation of our products and services; and the design, manufacture, marketing and advertising of our products and services. The healthcare and technology markets are also highly regulated and subject to evolving political, economic and regulatory influences. Global regulators are expanding and changing regulations and guidance for products and services, which can limit their potential benefits and cause protracted review timelines for new products and services. Our critical third-party vendors and service providers are subject to similar regulations. Our failure or the failure of our suppliers, customers, advertisers, consultants, and influencers to strictly adhere to clearances or approvals in the labeling, marketing and sales of our products and services could subject us to claims or litigation, including allegations of false or misleading advertising or violations of laws or regulations, which may result in costly investigations, fines, penalties, as well as material judgments, settlements or decrees. We are also subject to complex, new and evolving environmental, health and safety regulations. There can be no assurance we will adequately address the risks associated with the implementation and compliance with such laws and our internal processes and procedures to comply with such laws or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Furthermore, before we can sell a new medical device or market a new use of, or claim for, an existing product, we frequently must obtain regulatory clearance or approval. For instance, in the United States, FDA regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, product design, product materials, development, manufacturing and testing, product labeling and product storage. It takes significant time, effort, and expense to obtain and maintain clearances and approvals of products and services, and there is no guarantee we will timely succeed, if at all, in the countries in which we do business. In other countries, the requirements, time, effort and expense to obtain and maintain clearances may differ materially. Moreover, these laws may change, resulting in additional time, expense or loss of market access. If the requirements to market our products or services are delayed, we may be unable to offer them in markets we deem important. Additionally, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement actions with sanctions, including fines, civil penalties and 28 criminal prosecution. Delays or failures to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, clearances or to comply with regulatory requirements may materially adversely affect our domestic or international operations, and adversely impact our business. We and certain of our third-party vendors must also comply with and adhere to facility registration and product listing requirements for Quality System regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. Failure to satisfactorily correct an adverse inspection finding or comply with applicable regulations can result in enforcement actions, or require us to find alternative manufacturers, which could be a long and costly process and may cause reputational harm. Enforcement actions by regulators could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery (ABAC) laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business, securing an advantage and directing business to another. To comply with ABAC laws, regulators require we maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. Under the FCPA, we may be held liable for corruption by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners, intermediaries or representatives acting on our behalf. While we have policies and procedures requiring compliance with applicable laws and regulations and we provide training to foster compliance, our employees, third parties acting on our behalf, and customers may not adhere to our policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations, including the use of certain electronic communications and maintaining accurate books and records. If our personnel or the personnel of our agents or suppliers fail to comply with any laws, regulations, policies or procedures, or we fail to audit and enforce compliance, our reputation may be harmed, we may lose customers or revenues or we may face regulatory investigations, actions and fines. In June 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed its longstanding approach to evaluating administrative rulemaking under the Chevron doctrine, which provided for judicial deference to regulatory agencies, including the FDA. There may be increased challenges to existing agency regulations or how lower courts will apply the decision in the context of other regulatory schemes without more specific guidance from the courts. For example, this decision may result in more companies suing the FDA to challenge its longstanding decisions and policies, which could undermine the FDA's authority, lead to uncertainties in the industry, and disrupt the FDAs normal operations, which could impact the timely review of any regulatory filings or applications we submit. Security breaches, data breaches, cybersecurity attacks, other cybersecurity incidents, or the failure to comply with privacy, security and data protection laws could materially adversely impact our operations and patient care, and we could be liable for damages, and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We retain confidential employee, applicant and customer personal, health and financial, and our own proprietary information and data essential to our operations. We rely on the effectiveness of our IT systems, policies and contracts and the policies of our third-party vendors, and their IT systems to safeguard information and data. Additionally, our cybersecurity controls depend on our customers, many of whom are individual or small healthcare providers with limited IT experience and inadequate or untested security protocols, to successfully manage data privacy and security requirements. It is critical that the facilities, infrastructure and IT systems on which we depend and the products and services we develop remain secure and be perceived as secure. Despite the implementation of security features in our products and services and security measures in our IT systems, we and our service providers, third-party vendors and other third parties could be targeted by or subject to physical break-ins, computer viruses and other malicious code, unauthorized or fraudulent access, programming errors or other technical malfunctions, hacking attacks, phishing and other social engineering attacks, malware, ransomware, employee error or malfeasance, cybersecurity attacks, malicious code, and other breaches of, or incidents impacting, IT systems or similar malicious or otherwise disruptive actions, including by organized groups and nation-state actors, which may disrupt or limit the availability of, or result in damage to, our IT systems and result in loss or unavailability of, damage to, or the unauthorized acquisition, use, disclosure, or other processing of confidential information. For example, we have experienced, and may again experience in the future, cybersecurity incidents, data incidents, and unauthorized internal employee exfiltration of information. This risk is exacerbated with the advancement of technologies like AI, which malicious third parties can use to create new, more sophisticated and more frequent or other attacks. There can be no assurance our cybersecurity risk management program and processes, including our policies, controls or procedures, will be fully implemented, complied with or effective in protecting our systems and information or any other information we maintain or otherwise process. Further, the frequency and sophistication of third-party cybersecurity attacks are increasing. Significant service disruptions, breaches, incidents, interruptions or other disruptive events impacting our infrastructure and IT systems, or other cybersecurity incidents, or any belief or reporting that any of the foregoing has occurred, could expose us to regulatory investigations, or other proceedings, private claims, demands, and litigation, impair our reputation and competitive position, distract management and require significant time and resources to address. Legal or regulatory action against us could prevent us from resolving issues quickly or force us to resolve them in unanticipated ways, cause us to incur significant expense and damages, or result in orders forcing us to cease operations or modify our business practices in ways that materially limit or restrict our products and services. Concerns over our practices with respect to privacy, data protection, data governance, and cybersecurity could adversely affect our reputation and deter customers and consumers from using our products and services. In addition, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable if our products, services or IT systems fail to timely deliver accurate and complete information. We have cybersecurity and other forms of insurance coverage related to cyberattacks, breaches, and other incidents 29 or security problems, but we cannot guarantee applicable insurance will be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all. Damages and claims arising from incidents may not be covered, may exceed coverage limits, and may not cover the time and effort we incur investigating and responding to any incidents, or other costs or liabilities, which may be material. The costs to eliminate, mitigate, or recover from security problems and cybersecurity attacks and incidents could be material and require us to implement additional or different security controls or other measures and, depending on the nature and extent of the problem and the products, services or IT systems impacted, such security problems and cybersecurity attacks and incidents may result in network, IT system interruptions or other disruptions, decreased product sales, data loss, damage, unavailability, or other liabilities, any of which may have a material impact on our operations, net revenues and operating results. Additionally, our iTero intraoral scanners may be independently or collectively the target of cybersecurity incidents or attacks or subject to security vulnerabilities, bugs, errors, defects, or viruses or other malicious code. Due to the large and growing number of these decentralized devices, we may be unable, or not have the capacity, knowledge or infrastructure, to respond to or remedy a cybersecurity incident in a timely manner. Any such cybersecurity incident may cause loss or damage to us, our customers or strategic business partners or may cause further malfunctions in, or damage to, our products, services, or IT systems, damage to, or loss, unavailability, or unauthorized acquisition, use, or other processing of our data, or disruption, interruption or temporary cessation of our operations. Further, any such security breach or incident, or other cybersecurity incident, or any belief or reporting that any of the foregoing has occurred, may otherwise have a negative impact upon our business or reputation. We are also subject to federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations respecting the security and privacy of patient healthcare information applicable to healthcare providers and their business associates, such as HIPPA, the HITECH Act, and the Privacy Standards and Security Standards, as well as those relating to privacy, data security, content regulation and consumer protection, such as the California Consumer Protection Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (as amended, the CCPA). The CCPA requires covered businesses that process personal information of California residents to disclose certain practices, provides California residents with data privacy rights, imposes operational requirements, and provides for significant civil penalties for violations as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches and statutory damages. There are limited exemptions under the CCPA for protected health information covered by HIPAA and certain other state laws, but the CCPA and other new and evolving state laws could impact our business activities. Numerous other states have enacted laws relating to privacy, data protection, data governance and cybersecurity that either are in operation or slated to go into operation over the next several years. Many of these laws are comprehensive privacy laws similar to the CCPA. States also are enacting laws addressing specific subject matter, such as Washingtons My Health, My Data Act, which includes a private right of action. Laws in all 50 U.S. states may require businesses to provide notice to individuals whose personal data has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. Outside of the U.S., relevant legal requirements continue to evolve. For example, the collection and use of health data and other personal information is governed in the EU by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which imposes significant obligations upon companies and rights for individuals, with substantial penalties for noncompliance up to the greater of 20,000,000 or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, and by certain EU member state-level legislation. Numerous other jurisdictions maintain similar legislation or other laws or regulations addressing privacy, data protection, data governance, or cybersecurity. We are also subject to data export restrictions and international transfer laws and regulations that prohibit or impose conditions upon certain data transfers. The mechanisms upon which we and many other companies rely upon for European data transfers have been the subject of legal challenge, regulatory interpretation and judicial decisions by the EU courts and regulators, and may be subject to significant changes. Several countries, including the United States, China, Australia, and Japan, have established legal requirements for cross-border transfers of all or certain personal information and certain countries have also established legal requirements for data localization. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be created, interpreted, applied or amended in ways that could restrict our activities in certain jurisdictions, limit our ability to provide our products and services in those jurisdictions, require us to modify our policies and practices and to engage in additional contractual negotiations, or increase our costs and obligations and impose limitations upon our ability to efficiently transfer personal data across borders. We have and likely will again in the future be required to implement new or expand existing data storage protocols, build new storage facilities, devote additional resources, and modify relevant policies or procedures to comply with the foregoing laws, any of which could be costly and which may adversely affect our business and our customers' businesses, our financial condition and our results of operations in those jurisdictions. With laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, data governance and cybersecurity imposing new and relatively burdensome obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other obligations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices and may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. Further, any failure or perceived failure by us or our vendors, customers, or service providers to comply with our applicable policies or notices relating to privacy, data protection, data governance or cybersecurity, our contractual or other obligations to third parties, or any of our other legal obligations, laws, rules, regulations or standards relating to privacy, data protection, data governance or cybersecurity, may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims and other proceedings, harm our reputation, and could result in significant liability. Our business exposes us to potential liability for the quality and safety of our products and services, how we advertise and market those products and services, and how and to whom we sell them, and we may incur substantial expenses or be found liable for substantial damages or penalties if we are subject to claims or litigation. 30 Our products and services involve an inherent risk of claims concerning their design, materials, manufacture, safety, and performance, how we package, bundle, or sell them to individual customers or companies, including hospitals and clinics, and how we train and support doctors, their staffs and patients who use our products and services. Moreover, consumer products and services are routinely subject to claims of false, deceptive or misleading advertising, consumer fraud and unfair business practices. Additionally, we may be held liable if our products or services cause injury or are otherwise found unhealthy. If our products and services are safe but they are promoted for use or used in unintended or unexpected ways or for which we have not obtained clearance (off-label usage), we may be investigated, fined or have our products or services enjoined or approvals rescinded or we may be required to defend ourselves in litigation. Although we maintain insurance for product liability, business practices, and other types of activities we make or offer, coverage may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and may be insufficient for actual liabilities. Any claim for product liability, sales, advertising and business practices, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in material legal defense costs and damage our reputation, increase our expenses, and divert managements attention. Current and anticipated sustainability and social (Sustainability) laws and scrutiny of our Sustainability policies and practices may materially increase our costs, expose us to liability, and adversely impact our reputation, employee retention, willingness of customers and suppliers to do business with us and willingness of investors to invest in us. Our operations are subject to a variety of existing local, regional and global Sustainability laws and regulations, and we are and may be required to comply with new, broader, more complex and more costly Sustainability laws and regulations, such as the EUs Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. Our compliance obligations span all aspects of our business and operations, including product design and development, materials sourcing and other procurement activities, product packaging, product safety, energy and natural resources usage, facilities design and utilization, recycling and collection, transportation, disposal activities and workers rights. Sustainability regulations are expected to have an increasingly larger impact on us or our suppliers. Many U.S. and foreign regulators have or are considering enacting new or additional disclosure requirements or limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases from power generated using fossil fuels. The effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on power generation are subject to significant uncertainties, including the timing of new requirements, levels of emissions reductions and the scope and types of emissions regulated. Additionally, as Sustainability laws are increasing, customers and consumers may demand our products, packaging and operations be more sustainable, affect how we manufacture and package our products, increase our costs and those of our suppliers, and may result in manufacturing, transportation and supply chain disruptions if sustainable clean energy is not readily available in adequate amounts when required. Moreover, clean energy sources, coupled with reduced investments in traditional energy production and infrastructure, may not provide the predictable, reliable and consistent energy we, our suppliers and other business partners require. Additionally, the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of, or contained in, our products may be affected by laws and regulations governing the use of minerals obtained from certain regions of the world like the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Our expanding geographic operations may increase the risk of purchasing conflict minerals and our diligence efforts to identify whether any of our products contain minerals impacted by these laws and regulations may not be accurate, adequate or complete. Other restrictions apply to the substances incorporated into our products, including the chemical compounds in our clear aligners, the electronics in our iTero intraoral scanners and the packaging in which they are shipped. These laws are proliferating and new substances subject to restrictions are added regularly and may require additional reporting or phasing out of certain chemicals and compounds such as per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). We may be required to re-design our products or identify new suppliers to maintain our compliance with these laws. Further, these laws and regulations may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs, thereby negatively affecting our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, leading customers to potentially choose competitive goods and services. Meeting our obligations under existing Sustainability laws and regulations is costly for us and our suppliers, and we expect these regulations and costs to increase, in particular as the regulatory frameworks in each jurisdiction in which we operate become more complex and distinct. Additionally, regulators may perform investigations, inspections and periodically audit our compliance with these laws and regulations, and our efforts or operations may not be compliant. If we fail to comply with any requirements, we could be subject to significant penalties or liabilities and we may be required to implement new and materially more costly processes and procedures. Even if we successfully comply with these laws and regulations, our suppliers may not. We may also suffer financial and reputational harm if customers require, and we are unable to deliver, certification that our products are compliant. In all of these situations, customers may stop purchasing products from us, and may take legal action against us, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Investor advocacy groups, institutional investors, investment funds, proxy advisory services, stockholders and customers have and could in the future focus on corporate Sustainability practices. Additionally, public interest and legislative pressure related to companies Sustainability practices has been evolving in recent years. If we fail to adopt Sustainability standards or practices as quickly as stakeholders desire, comply with or timely report on our Sustainability efforts or practices accurately, or satisfy the disclosure and other expectations of stakeholders, our brand, reputation, employee retention, business, financial performance, growth, and stock price may be adversely impacted. 31 We have been incorporating and continue to work to further incorporate AI technologies into our products, services and IT systems. Implementation of AI and machine learning technologies may result in legal and regulatory risks, reputational harm or have other adverse consequences to our business. We have and are continuing to incorporate AI, including machine learning and independent algorithms, in certain of our products, services and IT systems, which is intended to enhance their operation and effectiveness internally and for our customers, consumers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that we or our customers will realize the expected benefits from these investments. AI innovation presents risks and challenges that could impact our business. Our, or our vendors, AI algorithms may be flawed. Our datasets or AI training algorithms may be insufficient or contain biased information. Additionally, many countries and regions, including the EU, have proposed new and evolving regulations related to the use of AI and machine learning technologies. In Europe, the EU AI Act entered into force on August 1, 2024 which will become fully effective on August 2, 2026, with some provisions effective in February 2025. Other jurisdictions are considering similarly focused legislation. Although we do not engage in developing or providing AI systems for which their placement on the market, putting into service, or use would qualify as prohibited AI practices, restrictions and obligations under this regulation, to the extent applicable to us, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, other jurisdictions have proposed, and in certain cases enacted, laws and regulations addressing aspects of the use and development of AI. The evolving AI regulatory environment may, among other impacts, result in: inconsistencies among AI regulations and frameworks across jurisdictions; onerous compliance, governance, research and development obligations that may require us to rework or reevaluate improvements to be compliant or result in the development of products that are unacceptable under new or revised regulatory frameworks; increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation related to our AI models; increased liability related to the use of AI by our customers, consumers or suppliers that are beyond our control; delays in the deployment of new products and services; competitive and reputational harm; and increased cybersecurity risks. Intellectual Property Risks Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, and if we fail to successfully obtain or enforce our IP rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain existing IP rights and obtain, maintain and enforce further IP protections for our products. Our inability to do so could harm our competitive position. We rely on our portfolio of issued and pending patent applications in the United States and other countries to protect a large part of our IP and our competitive position; however, these patents may not prevent third parties from producing competing products similar in design to ours if they are invalidated, held unenforceable, circumvented or otherwise limited in scope. Furthermore, our foreign patent protections may be more limited in geographic scope than those under U.S. patent and IP laws. Additionally, any of our patent applications may not result in an issued patent or the scope of the patent ultimately issued may be narrower than initially sought. We may not be afforded the protection of a patent if our currently pending or future patent filings do not result in the issuance of patents or we fail to timely apply for patent protection. We may not apply for a patent if our personnel fail to disclose or recognize new patentable ideas or innovations. We may choose not to file a foreign patent application if the limited protections provided by a foreign patent do not outweigh the costs to obtain it. Further, third parties may file patents or develop IP strategies that prevent or limit the effectiveness of our patents. We also protect our IP through copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and confidentiality obligations. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with us. However, despite the existence of these protections, we have experienced incidents in which our proprietary information has been misappropriated and believe it could be misappropriated in the future. If these agreements do not provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information, adequate remedies may not exist to prevent unauthorized uses or disclosures. Enforcement of our IP rights is time-consuming and costly, and could ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. In certain jurisdictions, enforcement of IP rights is more difficult due to legislation and geopolitical circumstances. As we launch our products in different regions at different times, our products may be acquired and reverse engineered by potential competitors in regions where infringement is more difficult to pursue. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through patents, copyrights, or trade secrets would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material effect on our operating results, financial condition, and future growth prospects. In particular, a failure to protect our IP rights might allow competitors to copy our technology or create counterfeit or pirated versions of our products, which could adversely affect our reputation, pricing, and market share. 32 Litigation regarding our IP rights, rights claimed by third parties or IP litigation by any vendors on whose products or services we rely for our products and services may impact our ability to grow our business and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Extensive litigation over IP rights is common in technologies and industries on which our products and services are based. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, re-exams, inter partes reviews, post grant reviews or other proceedings have been necessary and will likely be needed in the future to determine the validity and scope of certain of our IP rights and those claimed by third parties. These proceedings are used to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products and the products of competitors. We have been sued for infringement of third parties patents in the past and are currently defending patent infringement lawsuits and other legal claims. In addition, we periodically receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their IP rights and there may be other third-party IP rights of which we are presently unaware. As dentistry continues to become more digital, competitors may make defense of our IP more challenging. Asserting or defending these proceedings can be unpredictable, protracted, time-consuming, expensive, and distracting to management and technical personnel. Their outcomes may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products and services, require us to seek licenses for infringing products or technologies, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages. Unfavorable rulings could include monetary damages, injunctions prohibiting us from selling our products, or exclusion orders preventing us from importing our products in one or more countries. Moreover, independent actions by competitors, customers, or others have alleged that our efforts to enforce our IP rights constitute unfair competition or violations of antitrust laws and investigations and additional litigation based on the same or similar claims may be brought in the future. The potential effects on our business operations resulting from litigation, whether or not ultimately determined in our favor or settled by us, are costly and could materially affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial, Tax and Accounting Risks If our goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record material charges to income. Under U.S. GAAP, we review our goodwill annually and more frequently if we identify events or circumstances that indicate it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit has been reduced below its carrying value. We review finite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. The qualitative analysis performed by management to identify indicators of impairment or the quantitative analysis used to determine fair value requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining appropriate assumptions and estimates, including revenue growth rates, gross and operating margins, and discount rates. Management is responsible for continually assessing qualitative factors that could negatively impact the fair value of goodwill and intangible and long-lived assets and if required, assesses the fair value of each to determine if they have become impaired. Consequently, we may be required to record material charges to earnings on our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets is determined. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or in the way these principles are interpreted by us or by our regulators could materially affect our current or previously issued financial statements. We are required to annually assess our internal control over financial reporting and any adverse results from such assessment may result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and adversely affect our stock price. We are required to furnish in our Annual Report on Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including an assertion by management that our internal control over financial reporting were effective as of the end of our fiscal year. Our internal controls may become ineffective because of changes in personnel, updates and upgrades to or migration away from existing software, failure to maintain accurate books and records, changes in accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards, or changes to business models that may require adjustments to our financial reporting and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the existing policies or procedures may become ineffective. Establishing, testing and maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting requires significant resources and time commitments on the part of our management and our finance staff, and may require additional staffing and infrastructure investments and increases our costs of doing business. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, or conclude that our internal controls are ineffective, the timely filing of our financial reports could be delayed or we could be required to restate past reports. This could cause our investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period, which could result in volatility of our operating results and adversely affect our financial results. 33 We are subject to taxes in the United States and foreign countries. Various internal and external factors may impact our future effective tax rate. These include changes in the global economic environment, our legal entity structure or activities performed within our entities, our business operations, tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changes to existing accounting pronouncements, changes in interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates, overall levels of pretax earnings, settlements of income tax audits, non-deductible goodwill impairments, and changes in the valuation allowance offsetting deferred tax assets. Furthermore, we may continue to experience variation in our effective tax rate related to excess tax benefits or tax expense on stock-based compensation, particularly in the first quarter of each year when the majority of our equity awards vest. New tax laws and practices, changes to existing tax laws and practices, or disputes regarding the positions we take regarding tax laws, could negatively affect our provision for income taxes as well as our ongoing operations. Compliance with tax laws requires significant judgment concerning our worldwide provision for income taxes. Changes in tax laws or changes to how those laws are applied to our business could affect the amount of tax which we are subject to and the manner in which we operate. Specifically, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) established the Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) to among other things, allocate greater taxing rights to countries where customers are located and establish a global minimum tax rate. Countries including EU member countries have enacted, are considering enacting, or have committed to enact the OECD/G20 Frameworks Pillar Two 15% global minimum tax, including Switzerland which is a significant jurisdiction for us. We continue to monitor the enactment of legislation to evaluate the impact of changing global tax laws, which could adversely affect our provision for income taxes or operations. Moreover, the application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax (SUT), value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax (GST), and other indirect taxes) to our operations is complex and evolving. U.S. states, local and foreign taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing differing types of taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations and exemptions that may change over time. We collect and remit SUT, VAT, GST and other taxes in many jurisdictions and we are routinely subject to audits. The positions we take regarding taxes as well as the amounts we collect or remit have and may continue to be challenged and we may be liable for failing to collect or remit all taxes deemed owed or the taxes could exceed our estimates. We have and may continue to dispute rulings or positions taken by tax authorities, which have and may continue to incur significant expenses, time, and effort to defend our positions. The application of existing and new tax laws, and the results of audits could harm our business. Furthermore, there have been and will continue to be substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various tax requirements and defending our positions in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. Historically, the market price for our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to rapid and large price fluctuations attributable to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors include: quarterly variations in our results of operations and liquidity, our ability to meet or exceed our forecasts and guidance or changes to or withdrawal of our previous forecasts and guidance; our ability to regain or sustain our historical growth rates; changes in recommendations or valuation models for our stock by the investment community, or speculation in the press or investment community regarding estimates of our net revenues, results of operations, or other key performance indicators; announcements by us, our competitors, or new market entrants, including strategic actions, management changes, and material transactions or acquisitions; technical factors in the public trading markets for our stock that may produce price movements inconsistent with macroeconomic, industry, or company-specific fundamentals, including the sentiment of retail investors (as it may be expressed on financial trading and other social media sites), the amount and status of short interest in our securities, access to margin debt, trading in options and other derivatives on our common stock, fractional share trading, and other technical trading factors or strategies; stockholder activism or securities class action litigation; announcements regarding stock repurchases, sales or purchases of our common stock by us, our officers or directors, credit agreements, and debt issuances; announcements of technological innovations or new, additional or revised programs, business models, products, or product offerings by us, our customers, or competitors; key decisions in pending litigation, new litigation, settlements, judgments, or decrees; short selling or other hedging activity in our stock; and general economic market conditions, including rising interest rates, tariffs, inflationary pressures, recessions, consumer sentiment and demand, global geopolitical conflict, and industry factors unrelated to our actual performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and medical device companies, in particular, often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to corporate operating performance. Any such 34 fluctuations have and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These broad market and industry factors may include market expectations of, or actual changes in, monetary policies that have the goal of easing or tightening interest rates such as the U.S. federal funds rate and austerity measures of governments intended to control budget deficits. Securities litigation, including securities class action lawsuits and securities derivative lawsuits, is often brought against an issuer following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities and we have not been exempt from such litigation. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to repurchase our common stock in the future, and any repurchases we may make may not achieve our desired objectives. We have a history of recurring stock repurchase programs intended to return capital to our investors. Future stock repurchase programs are contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, market conditions, results of operations, business requirements, and our continuing determination that stock repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all applicable laws and agreements. There is no assurance that we will continue repurchasing our common stock in the future at historical levels or at all, or that our stock repurchase programs will beneficially impact our stock price. Additionally, effective January 1, 2023, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes a 1% excise tax on our stock repurchases, net of certain stock issuances, which will increase our tax liabilities and the cost to repurchase stock and may impact if and how much stock we choose to repurchase in the future. Future sales of significant amounts of our common stock may depress our stock price. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is currently owned by a small number of stockholders. These stockholders have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, large amounts of our stock over relatively short periods of time. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders may adversely affect the market price of our stock by creating the perception of difficulties or problems with our business, which may depress our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Overview We have implemented a cross-functional information security program to assess, identify and manage material risks from cybersecurity risk, which includes seeking input from our employees, management, third-party vendors, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee) and the Board of Directors. Our information security programs ultimate goal is preventing cybersecurity incidents to the extent feasible, while simultaneously increasing our system resilience to minimize the business impact should an incident occur. In the event of an identified cybersecurity incident, we have developed a detailed cybersecurity incident response process, which outlines the steps to be followed from incident detection, analysis, containment, eradication, recovery and notification, including notifying functional areas (e.g. information technology, legal, finance, operations, privacy), as well as senior leadership and the Audit Committee, as appropriate. In certain instances, incidents are escalated to certain members of our legal team who are responsible for, among other things, the accurate and timely disclosure of material cybersecurity incidents required under federal securities laws, including making the materiality determination and approving related securities disclosures. Risk Management and Strategy Our information security program devotes significant resources to cybersecurity and risk management processes to adapt to the changing cybersecurity landscape and respond to emerging threats in a timely and effective manner. We regularly assess the threat landscape and take a holistic view of cybersecurity risks, with a layered cybersecurity strategy based on prevention, detection and response. Our information security program leverages the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001 frameworks choosing to organize our cybersecurity risks into five categories: identify, protect, detect, respond and recover. This does not imply that we meet any particular technical standards, specifications, or requirements, only that we use the NIST and ISO frameworks as a guide to help us identify, assess, and manage cybersecurity risks relevant to our business. Our information security program is integrated into our overall enterprise risk management program. Our information security program includes, among other things: cybersecurity incident response; vulnerability management; 35 antivirus and malware protection; technology compliance and risk management; encryption; identity and access management; application security; and security monitoring. Our information security program also includes an information security awareness program, which includes annual training regarding our acceptable use and information classification and handling policies, regular phishing campaigns complemented by additional employee training as appropriate, and communications and companion trainings to keep users informed on current events. Our information security team engages third-party services to conduct evaluations of our security controls, including penetration testing and independent audits. Annually, an external auditor conducts a System and Organization Controls (SOC) type 2 audit covering the security principle for systems supporting our products. Our assessment of risks associated with the use of third-party vendors is part of our overall cybersecurity risk management framework. If a third-party vendor is unable to provide a SOC 1 or SOC 2 report, our information security team takes additional steps to assess its cybersecurity preparedness and our initiation or continued engagement with it. Additionally, third-party vendors are required to include security and privacy addenda to our contracts where determined applicable and are reassessed periodically as necessary depending on the risk level that has been assigned to the third-party vendor. Our legal team also requires that our third-party vendors report cybersecurity incidents to us so the impact of the incident on us can be assessed. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not identified any risks from known cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. Notwithstanding the approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not successfully prevent or mitigate cybersecurity incidents that could have a material adverse effect on us. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, the costs related to cybersecurity threats or disruptions may not be covered or, if covered, fully insured. For a discussion of our cybersecurity-related risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Governance Role of Management To more effectively assess and manage cybersecurity threats, we have a dedicated Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who is responsible for leading enterprise-wide information security strategy, policy, process, and technology.Our current CISO has 20+ years of information security and risk management experience and holds a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification.Our CISO regularly briefs our Audit Committee on our cybersecurity and information security program and cybersecurity incidents deemed to pose a risk of a critical business impact or reputational harm. Our information security team, comprised of employees with an expertise in cybersecurity and information technology, regularly assesses the threat landscape and takes a holistic view of cybersecurity risks, with a layered cybersecurity strategy based on prevention, detection and response. Our information security team annually performs a cybersecurity enterprise risk assessment and presents the results to management and the Audit Committee. In addition, our internal audit team conducts periodic audits of the Companys systems and cybersecurity processes, with findings reported to the Audit Committee and senior management. Role of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee Our Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and reviewing our cybersecurity, data privacy, and other information technology risks,