ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this annual report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact of our new products and product enhancements, including Invisalign G3, will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of the Cadent Holdings, Inc. (Cadent) acquisition, our expectations to increase our investment in manufacturing capacity, our expectations regarding the continued growth of our international markets, including the expected timing of the commercial launch of Invisalign in China , the anticipated number of new doctors trained and their impact on volumes, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins, and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We design, manufacture and market the Invisalign system, a proprietary method for treating malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth. Invisalign corrects malocclusion using a series of clear, nearly invisible, removable appliances that gently move teeth to a desired final position. Because it does not rely on the use of metal or ceramic brackets and wires, Invisalign significantly reduces the aesthetic and other limitations associated with metal arch wires and brackets, commonly referred to as braces. We received the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance to market Invisalign in 1998. The Invisalign system is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device. We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: the orthodontist and the general practitioner dentist, or GP. Orthodontists and GPs must complete an initial Invisalign training course in order to begin providing the Invisalign treatment solution to their patients. The Invisalign system is sold in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan. We use a distributor model for the sale of our products in parts of the Asia Pacific, Latin American and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) regions. Each Invisalign treatment plan is unique to the individual patient. Our Invisalign Full treatment consists of as many aligners as indicated by ClinCheck in order to achieve the doctors treatment goals. Our Invisalign Express is a dual arch orthodontic treatment for cases that meet certain predetermined clinical criteria and consist of up to ten sets of aligners. Invisalign Express treatment is intended to assist dental professionals to treat a broader range of patients by providing a lower-cost option for adult relapse cases, for minor crowding and spacing, or as a pre-cursor to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers. In April 2010, we replaced Invisalign Express in international markets with the launch of Invisalign Lite. Invisalign Lite offers doctors a new option for less complex orthodontic cases, such as short-term aesthetic cases, relapsed cases and pre-restorative treatments, using up to 14 stages. Invisalign Teen is designed to meet the specific needs of the non-adult comprehensive or teen treatment market particularly younger teenagers aged 11 to 15 years. Invisalign Assist is intended to help newly-trained and lower volume Invisalign GPs accelerate the adoption and frequency of use of Invisalign into their practice. Upon completion of an Invisalign or non-Invisalign treatment, the patient may be prescribed our traditional retainer product, or our Vivera retainers, a clear aligner set designed for ongoing retention. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the standard method for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals by focusing on the four key objectives: driving product innovation and clinical effectiveness, enhancing the customer experience, generating consumer demand and expanding into international markets. Each of these four key objectives is described more fully in Item IBusinessBusiness Strategy of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As we execute on our business strategy, we will continue to deliver significant evolutions in product features and functionality, as well as customer facing systems. In addition to the successful execution of our business strategy, which is set forth in our Annual Report in Form 10-K, there are a number of other factors which may affect our results in 2011 and beyond, both of which are updated below: Accelerate product and clinical innovation. In October 2010, we launched Invisalign G3 in North America, the most significant collection of new features and innovation in our company history touching virtually every system and product. Significant improvements and enhancements were made in to all our customer-facing systems. For instance, the Invisalign Doctor Site now consolidates all of a patients Invisalign records and treatment tasks together in one location 17 Table of Contents for easy access and the ClinCheck software now includes drag and drop features, additional clinical tools and a more intuitive interface. In addition, with the exception of our Vivera retainers, we introduced new and expanded features across our product line. Engineered to deliver even better clinical results, the Invisalign G3 new aligner and software features make it easier to use Invisalign with more complex and challenging cases, including Precision Cuts designed for use on patients with Class II and Class III malocclusion, new SmartForce features designed for increased predictability of certain tooth movements, and simpler, more intuitive software to streamline treatment planning and review. We believe that, in addition to an increase in the number of patients visiting dental offices throughout the first quarter as reported by our customers, and patient interest in higher value procedures, Invisalign G3 is an important contributor to the increased utilization in the first quarter of 2011 by our North American Ortho customer. Additionally, since most of our international customers are Orthodontists, we believe the international launch of Invisalign G3 beginning in May 2011 is important for continued growth both in our existing international markets and to support our expansion in new markets like China. Investments to Increase Manufacturing Capacity. We expect capital expenditures to increase in 2011 as we invest in our manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico to add incremental capacity. In addition, in order to meet the increased demands from expected volumes, we expect to open an additional aligner fabrication site in Juarez, Mexico by the end of 2011. Our ability to plan, construct and equip this additional manufacturing facility is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including delays and cost overruns. If the opening of this facility is significantly delayed for any reason, or if demand for our product in 2011 exceeds our current expectations, we may not be able to fulfill orders timely, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. Number of new doctors trained. In the first quarter of 2011 we trained approximately 957 new doctors worldwide, which is fewer than the number of doctors trained compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. We planned on training fewer international doctors until after the international release of Invisalign G3 in the second quarter of 2011. As a result, we trained 165 new international doctors in the first quarter of 2011, compared to 500 in the fourth quarter of 2010. Although we will begin training more international doctors later in the year, we expect that the number of international doctors trained in 2011 will be approximately 600 fewer than the number trained in 2010. Utilization rates. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, or utilization. Our quarterly utilization rates for the previous nine quarters are as follows: Utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to Utilization rates in the first quarter of 2011 for the North American Ortho increased to 6.5 cases per doctor reflecting continued penetration into the North American Ortho practices due in part to an increase in the number of patients visiting dental offices throughout the first quarter as reported by our customers, patient interest in higher value procedures and the availability of Invisalign G3 designed to make it easier to use Invisalign with more complex and challenging cases. Although we expect that over the long-term our utilization rates will gradually improve, we expect that period over period comparisons of our utilization rates will fluctuate. 18 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations . Seasonal fluctuations in the number of doctors in their offices and available to take appointments have affected, and are likely to continue to affect our business. Specifically, our customers often take vacation during the summer months and therefore tend to start fewer cases, especially North American GPs and European doctors. In 2010, sequential case growth from second quarter to the third quarter in the North American Ortho channel was essentially flat. With the availability of Invisalign Teen, we can actively compete for a share of teen patient starts. Summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients. Many parents want to get their teens started in treatment before the start of the school year. We believe that Invisalign Teen helped moderate the historical downward trend we have typically seen for our North American orthodontic customers during the summer months. In the third quarter of 2010, we saw a decline in the number of cases submitted as well as a decline in the number of submitters in our North American GP channel which is consistent with our historical trend during this quarter. Acquisition of Cadent . On April 29, 2011, we acquired privately-held Cadent, a leading provider of 3D digital scanning solutions for orthodontics and dentistry for $190 million in cash. The acquisition of Cadent positions us as a leader in one of the best growth opportunities in dentistry and medical devices today. Over the next five years, we expect that intra-oral scanners will become widely used in dental practices. We believe that the combination of the two companies will help accelerate the use of intra-oral scanning in the dental industry by leveraging Aligns global sales reach, extensive professional and consumer marketing capabilities and base of over 55 thousand ClinCheck software users. Cadent also strengthens our ability to drive adoption of Invisalign by integrating Invisalign treatment more fully with mainstream tools and procedures in doctors practices. As part of an ongoing program to evaluate interoperability of intra-oral scanning systems for future use with Invisalign treatment, we are in final beta tests with Cadents systems and we expect to announce interoperability for Cadent scanners in the second quarter of 2011. Foreign exchange rates . Although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a portion of our revenues and profits are generated in foreign currencies. Revenues and profits generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and as a result are affected by changes in exchange rates. We have generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchanges rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of revenues and profits in our consolidated financial statements. Growth of international markets. In October 2010, we announced regulatory approval to market and sell Invisalign in China and expect to begin commercial launch before the end of the second quarter of 2011. While we do not expect meaningful revenue from China for several years, our focused strategy to launch Invisalign in key major cities of China provides us a large growth opportunity long term. Operating Expenses. In the second quarter of 2011, we expect operating expenses to increase reflecting the remaining transaction costs related to the acquisition of Cadent, including investment banking fees, legal, accounting and advisory fees. Additionally, we will expect additional media spending in preparation for the summer months and continued commercialization activities for Invisalign G3 internationally. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net revenues and case volume by channel and product: Invisalign product revenues by channel and other non-case revenues, which represents training, retainer and ancillary products, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net revenues 2011 2010 Net Change % Change North America: Ortho $ 35.0 $ 28.2 $ 6.8 24.1 % GP 39.3 37.2 2.1 5.6 % Total North American Invisalign 74.3 65.4 8.9 13.6 % International Invisalign 25.2 20.0 5.2 26.0 % Total Invisalign revenues 99.5 85.4 14.1 16.5 % Non-case revenues 5.4 4.7 0.7 14.9 % Total net revenues $ 104.9 $ 90.1 $ 14.8 16.4 % Case volume data which represents Invisalign case shipments by channel, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Invisalign case volume 2011 2010 Net Change % Change North America: Ortho 26.9 22.1 4.8 21.7 % GP 28.3 28.5 (0.2 ) (0.7 %) Total North American Invisalign 55.2 50.6 4.6 9.1 % International Invisalign 16.2 13.0 3.2 24.6 % Total Invisalign case volume 71.4 63.6 7.8 12.3 % Invisalign revenues by product and other non-case revenues, which represents training, retainer and ancillary products, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net revenues 2011 2010 Net Change % Change Invisalign Full $ 71.1 $ 65.7 $ 5.4 8.2 % Invisalign Express/Lite 10.1 8.6 1.5 17.4 % Invisalign Teen 11.9 8.2 3.7 45.1 % Invisalign Assist 6.4 2.9 3.5 120.7 % Non-case revenues 5.4 4.7 0.7 14.9 % Total net revenues $ 104.9 $ 90.1 $ 14.8 16.4 % 20 Table of Contents Case volume data which represents Invisalign case shipments by product, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Invisalign case volume 2011 2010 Net Change % Change Invisalign Full 48.1 43.7 4.4 10.1 % Invisalign Express/Lite 10.5 9.2 1.3 14.1 % Invisalign Teen 7.9 7.4 0.5 6.8 % Invisalign Assist 4.9 3.3 1.6 48.5 % Total Invisalign case volume 71.4 63.6 7.8 12.3 % Total net revenues increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily as a result of worldwide volume growth across all customer channels. In the three months ended March 31, 2011, North America revenue increased 13.6% compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to case volume growth, particularly in the North American Ortho channel, due to higher patient traffic and strong demand for our Invisalign Full product. Additionally, revenue increased due to lower revenue deferral rates for our Invisalign Teen and Invisalign Assist products. Since the second quarter of 2010, we established an estimated usage rate for Invisalign Teen replacement aligners, which reduced the deferral rate. Furthermore, in the first quarter of 2011 and in accordance with ASU 2009-13, we began recognizing Invisalign Assist revenue over the course of treatment as each stage is shipped instead of deferring until the final batch shipment. Our International Invisalign revenue also increased 26.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2011 mainly due to growth in case volumes of 24.6% from all products supplemented by favorable exchange rates of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. Other non-case revenues, consisting of training fees and sales of ancillary products, were higher for the three month ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to increased sales of our Vivera and retainer products which was partially offset by higher training discounts. Cost of revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Cost of revenues $ 22.6 $ 20.4 $ 2.2 % of net revenues 21.6 % 22.6 % Gross profit $ 82.2 $ 69.7 $ 12.5 Gross margin 78.4 % 77.4 % Cost of revenues includes salaries for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment used in the production process and stock-based compensation expense. Gross margin improved for the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to higher production volumes related to increased sales during the first quarter of 2011. Additionally, the gross margin for the first quarter of 2010 reflects charges that were not included in the gross margin during the first quarter of 2011. Gross margin during the first quarter of 2010 included the final amortization of the Ormco royalties of $0.8 million, and $0.5 million of net training costs that were subsequently included in sales and marketing following the first quarter of 2010. 21 Table of Contents Sales and marketing (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Sales and marketing $ 32.8 $ 27.9 $ 4.9 % of net revenues 31.3 % 31.0 % Sales and marketing expense includes sales force compensation (including travel-related costs), marketing personnel-related costs, media and advertising, clinical education, product marketing and stock-based compensation expense. Our sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to higher payroll and payroll-related costs of approximately $2.5 million and higher marketing and travel related costs of approximately $1.3 million. Additionally, we also incurred higher clinical education costs of approximately $0.8 million during the first quarter of 2011 of which $0.5 million was attributed to these expenses being included in cost of sales during the first quarter of 2010. General and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change General and administrative $ 19.0 $ 15.0 $ 4.0 % of net revenues 18.1 % 16.6 % General and administrative expense includes salaries for administrative personnel, outside consulting services, legal expenses and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due higher legal and accounting fees of approximately $2.2 million of which approximately $1.5 million was due to transaction costs related to our acquisition of Cadent that was incurred during the first quarter of 2011. We also incurred higher payroll and payroll-related costs of approximately $2.1 million during the first quarter of 2011 as compared to 2010. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Research and development $ 9.4 $ 6.1 $ 3.3 % of net revenues 9.0 % 6.8 % Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products, conducting clinical and post-marketing trials and stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to a $2.0 million payment to Cadent under the Joint Development agreement that we entered into in January 2011. We also incurred higher payroll and payroll-related costs relating to an increase in headcount of approximately $0.9 million. 22 Table of Contents Interest and other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Interest income $ 0.2 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Other income (expense), net (0.1 ) (0.7 ) 0.6 Total interest income and other income (expense), net $ 0.1 $ (0.6 ) $ 0.7 Interest and other income (expense), net, includes interest income earned on cash and investment balances, foreign currency translation gains and losses, and other miscellaneous charges. Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was comparable to the same period in 2010. Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2011 decreased as compared with the same period in 2010 reflecting a reduction in foreign exchange losses. Income tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Provision for income taxes $ 5.3 $ 5.2 $ 0.1 We recorded an income tax provision of $5.3 million and $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 25.0% and 25.9%. Our effective tax rate for the remainder of 2011 may fluctuate based upon our operating results for each taxable jurisdiction in which we operate and the amount of statutory tax that we incur in each jurisdiction. We exercised significant judgment in regards to estimates of future market growth, forecasted earnings and projected taxable income, in determining the provision for income taxes, and for purposes of assessing our ability to utilize any future benefit from deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2011, we have recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $6.1 million related to capital loss and foreign loss carryforwards because we cannot forecast sufficient future capital gains or foreign source income to realize these deferred tax assets. These net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards will result in an income tax benefit if and when we conclude it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales and the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had the following cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments (in thousands): March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents $ 308,608 $ 294,664 Marketable securities, short-term 8,328 8,615 Marketable securities, long-term 5,615 9,089 Total $ 322,551 $ 312,368 Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Net cash flow provided by (used in) : Operating activities $ 17,248 $ 18,645 Investing activities (7,226 ) 212 Financing activities 3,749 5,261 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 173 (198 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 13,944 $ 23,920 Operating Activities For the period ended March 31, 2011, cash flows from operations of approximately $17.2 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $15.8 million adjusted for the following reasons: Non-cash activities Deferred taxes were $4.0 million primarily due to the utilization of our deferred tax assets. Stock-based compensation expense was $4.3 million related to equity incentive compensation granted to employees. Net other non-cash activities including depreciation and amortization, benefit from doubtful accounts, and the amortization of intangibles of $3.5 million. Changes in working capital Accounts receivable increased by $7.3 million due to the increase in revenues during the first quarter of 2011, reducing our cash inflow from operating activities. Accrued and other long-term liabilities decreased by $5.3 million primarily due the payments of our incentive compensation and commission-related costs partially offset by higher sales rebate costs, reducing our cash inflow from operations. Deferred revenue increased by $3.0 million primarily due to higher sales during the first quarter of 2011, increasing our cash inflow from operations. Other working capital comprising of inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, and accounts payable, resulted in a net decrease of $0.7 million, reducing our cash inflow from operations. For the period ended March 31, 2010, cash flows from operations of $18.6 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $14.9 million adjusted for the following reasons: Non-cash activities Deferred taxes were approximately $5.0 million primarily due to the utilization of our deferred tax assets. 24 Table of Contents Net other non-cash activities including depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, excess tax provision for our share-based payments, and loss on the retirement/disposal of our fixed assets of $7.7 million. Changes in working capital Accounts receivable increased by approximately $4.9 million due to the increase in revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2010, reducing our cash inflow from operating activities. Accrued and other long-term liabilities decreased by $7.9 million primarily due to payments of incentive compensation and commission-related, reducing our cash inflow from operations. Deferred revenue increased by $5.1 million primarily due to higher sales with deferred revenue components, increasing our cash inflow from operations. Other working capital comprising of inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, and accounts payable resulted in a net decrease of $1.3 million, reducing our cash inflow from operations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily consisted of $2.8 million used for the purchase of property and equipment and $8.0 million of cash used to fund an escrow account related to the Leiszler class action suit. These items were partially offset by maturities of our marketable securities of $3.8 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 primarily consisted of maturities of our marketable securities of $5.0 million, which were partially offset by property, plant, and equipment purchases of $4.5 million. As a result of adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily resulting from $5.1 million in proceeds from the issuances of our common stock, which were partially offset by $1.3 million of taxes paid on the vesting of restricted stock units related to our employee stock plan. Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 primarily resulting from $6.0 million in proceeds from the issuances of our common stock, which were partially offset by $0.7 million of taxes paid on the vesting of restricted stock units related to our employee stock plan. Contractual Obligations On April 29, 2011 we completed the acquisition of Cadent and acquired all of their outstanding capital stock for $190 million in cash. The payment will be net of any estimated amount of any unpaid Cadent transaction expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows, we may need to seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, legal contingencies and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 25 Table of Contents We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our most significant estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies and related disclosures appear in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenue recognition; Stock-based compensation expense; Long-lived assets, including finite lived purchased intangible assets; Deferred tax valuation allowance. Revenue recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues are recognized from product sales, net of discounts and rebates. Service revenues related to the training of dental professionals and staff on the Invisalign treatment process is recorded when the services are completed. We enter into arrangements (treatment plans) that involve multiple future product deliverables. For example, included in the price of Invisalign Full, Invisalign Teen and Invisalign Assist, we offer optional case refinement, which is a finishing tool used to adjust a patients teeth to the desired final position. Case refinement may be elected by the dental professional at any time during treatment however it is generally ordered in the last stages of orthodontic treatment. Invisalign Teen also includes six optional replacement aligners in the price of the product and may be ordered at any time throughout treatment. Beginning January 1, 2011, we adopted revenue recognition guidance under Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Revenue Recognition: Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, on a prospective basis for new or materially modified arrangements. This update amends the guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables and eliminates the use of the residual method. We use vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) adjusted by estimated usage rates for case refinement and replacement aligners to determine the respective estimated selling price (ESP). In the absence of VSOE, we determine our best estimate of selling price, as if it is sold on a stand-alone basis, and take into consideration our pricing and discounting strategies, market conditions, as well as historical price. We regularly review our VSOE and ESP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and update of these estimates. A deliverable constitutes a separate unit of accounting when it has stand-alone value, even if the deliverable is not sold separately. We determined that our treatment plans are comprised of four possible deliverables that represent separate units of accounting: single-batched aligners, multiple-batched aligners, case refinement and replacement aligners. We allocate revenue for each treatment plan based on each units relative selling price and recognize the revenue upon the delivery of each unit in the treatment plan. The adoption of ASU 2009-13 did not have a material impact on our financial statements and is not expected to have a material impact in future periods. Although the financial statement impact was not material, the adoption of ASU 2009-13 did impact our accounting for Invisalign Assist with the progress tracking feature, in which aligners are shipped to the dental professional every nine stages (a batch). We determined that each batch has stand-alone value and therefore represents a separate unit of accounting. The estimated selling price for Invisalign Assist with progress tracking is allocated according to the estimated number of batches. Prior to January 1, 2011, we used VSOE as fair value to allocate revenue to the case refinement and replacement aligner deliverables. We deferred the fair value of case refinement and replacement aligner deliverables based on a breakage factor and recognized the residual revenue upon initial batch shipment. The deferred revenue was subsequently recognized as the refinement and replacement aligners were shipped. For Invisalign Assist with the progress tracking feature, we did not have independent evidence of fair value for the separate batches of aligners, so all batches of aligners were considered a single unit of accounting prior to January 1, 2011. For these treatment plans, revenue was deferred upon the first batched shipment and recognized upon the final batched shipment. We estimate and record a provision for amounts of estimated losses on sales, if any, in the period such sales occur. We have not recorded any estimated losses for the periods presented. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers are provided for in the same period that the related product sales are recorded based upon historical discounts and rebates 26 Table of Contents We establish a breakage factor to estimate the number of replacement and case refinement aligners, and batches for Invisalign Assist with progress tracking that will ultimately be ordered based on our historical utilization rates. Judgment is also required to determine the estimated selling price for our products with multiple element arrangements. The assumptions used in making these estimates represent managements best estimates but they involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our revenue and deferred revenue could be materially different in the future. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.