Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I Business. Our Company Align Technology, Inc. (We, Our, Align) is a global medical device company primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners for the treatment of malocclusions, or the misalignment of teeth, by orthodontists and general dental practitioners (GPs), ViveraTM retainers for retention, iTeroTM intraoral scanners and services for dentistry, and exocadTM computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software for dental laboratories and dental practitioners. Our vision and strategy is to revolutionize orthodontic and restorative dentistry through digital treatment planning and implementation using our Align Digital PlatformTM, an integrated suite of proprietary technologies and services designed to deliver a seamless, end-to-end solution for patients, consumers, orthodontists, GPs and lab partners. We strive to achieve our vision and strategy through key objectives made possible with the proprietary technologies and services of the Align Digital Platform to establish: clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions with the Invisalign system as the treatment solution of choice by orthodontists, GPs and patients globally, our intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the dental restorative solution of choice for dental labs. Aligns corporate headquarters are located at 410 North Scottsdale Road, Suite 1300, Tempe, Arizona 85288. Our telephone number is 602-742-2000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com. Our Americas regional headquarters is located 3 in Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A.; our European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regional headquarters is located in Rotkreuz, Switzerland; and our Asia Pacific (APAC) regional headquarters is located in Singapore. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner and (2) Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services (Systems and Services). For the year ended December 31, 2023, Clear Aligner net revenues represented approximately 83% of worldwide net revenues, while Systems and Services net revenues represented the remaining 17%. We sell the majority of our products directly through a dedicated and specialized sales force to our customers: orthodontists, GPs, including prosthodontists, periodontists, oral surgeons and dental laboratories. We also sell through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell directly to Dental Support Organizations (DSOs) who contract with dental practices to provide critical business management and support including non-clinical operations. We also sell our products to dental laboratories who use our products to manufacture or customize their own products for licensed dentists. We also market and sell doctor and consumer accessory products complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products under the Invisalign and other brands, including retainers, dental supplies, clear aligner cases (clamshells), teeth whitening products and cleaning solutions (collectively Invisalign Accessory Products). Depending on the product, our Invisalign Accessory Products are sold through a variety of channels, including online through large e-commerce websites, our doctor portal and in-store through large retailers and pharmacy stores. Our clear aligners are sold under the Invisalign brand name. Our Invisalign system is intended mainly for the treatment of malocclusions and is designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes they expect and the results patients desire. To date, approximately 17 million people worldwide have been treated with the Invisalign system. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. Our iTero intraoral scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and service providers for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign case submissions. Our exocad CAD/CAM software products provide restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery, and smile design to dental labs and dental practices through fully integrated workflows, with the goal to provide cross-disciplinary dentistry in labs and at chairside. Our Products, Services and Technologies Align Digital PlatformTM We strive to be at the forefront of innovation in digital orthodontics and dentistry, helping doctors transform their practices using digital tools and technology to deliver great treatment experiences and outcomes to people worldwide. The Align Digital Platform is the foundation of our goal to revolutionize the practice of dentistry, delivering interconnected, interdisciplinary workflows and treatment solutions designed to improve all aspects of treatment, from initial consultations to final smiles with our doctor-centered treatment model. The Align Digital Platform is an end-to-end digital platform that combines software, systems and services to seamlessly integrate and connect those critical to successful treatment outcomes doctors, labs, patients, and consumers. At the center of the Align Digital Platform are Invisalign clear aligners, iTero intraoral scanners, and exocad CAD/CAM software. The Align Digital Platform utilizes the AlignTM Digital Workflow to enable an end-to-end treatment experience that includes the following key components: 4 Connect: The initial stage of the platform drives consumer demand and connects potential patients to our websites and the websites of Invisalign providers. Some of the tools that support this stage are Invisalign.com, the Invisalign SmileViewTM tool, My Invisalign app, Doctor Locator, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Doctor Estimate and Invisalign Virtual Appointment. Scan: During this stage, patient data is captured through intraoral scanning. Doctors and their staffs use intraoral scanning tools designed to support diagnosis of a patients oral conditions and health and support doctors to develop appropriate treatment pathways. Visualization of their potential smiles helps patients understand the benefits of treatment and increase patient conversion. The tools that support this stage, include, iTero scanners and imaging systems, Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro, Invisalign Photo Uploader, Invisalign SmileViewTM tool, iTero ElementTM 5D auto upload feature, iTeroTM Scan Report and iTero exocad ConnectorTM. Diagnose: Doctors can access and use tools that support diagnosis of a patients oral health and develop an appropriate treatment pathway. The Align Digital Platform facilitates the doctor-patient conversation, through education regarding clinical needs and setting expectations. Some of the tools that support this stage include AlignTM Oral Health Suite, iTeroTM NIRI technology (Near Infra-Red Imaging), iTeroTM TimeLapse technology and iTero Occlusogram. Plan: Doctors digitally visualize and plan orthodontic and restorative treatments. Orthodontists and GPs can use our products to design, build and share their vision for treatment planning and agree on a customized plan with their patients to reach the desired outcomes. Orthodontists and GPs can use our products to design, build and share their vision for treatment planning and agree on a customized plan with their patients to reach desired outcomes. Some of the tools that support this stage are ClinCheck Pro 6.0, ClinCheck In-Face Visualization, ClinCheck Live Update, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Personalized Plan, CBCT integration for ClinCheck software, Invisalign Smile ArchitectTM and exocad Dental CADTM software. Treat: During this stage, doctors treat their patients with our Invisalign clear aligners and may offer teeth whitening using the InvisalignTM Professional Whitening System. Monitor: Doctors can remotely track their patients treatment between visits, and orthodontists and GPs can more easily track treatment progress and communicate issues, results and recommendations to their patients. Some of the tools that support this stage include Invisalign Virtual Care app, My InvisalignTM app, Invisalign Doctor Site, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Progress Assessment and iTeroTM scanners. Retain: Following completion of their orthodontic treatment, patients can retain the final position of their teeth using ViveraTM retainers. As we further evolve the treatment planning experience for doctors through new technological research and development innovations, we expect to introduce new technologies, features and functionality that improve personalization of treatment planning, predictability, clinical preferences, and 2D/3D imaging, including digital tools for faster and more accurate final tooth positions. In 2023, we launched several new products and technologies that further enhance the Align Digital Platform, including the enhanced precision wings for Invisalign treatment with mandibular advancement, the Invisalign Palatal Expander system, the SmartForce attachment-free clear aligner activation feature, the Plan Editor in ClinCheck treatment planning software, the AlignOral Health Suite, iTero-exocad Connector, exoplan 3.1 Rijeka, ChairsideCAD 3.1 Rijeka, PartialCAD 3.1 Rijeka, and Invisalign Lens. Clear Aligner Segment Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment Malocclusion is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions in the world, affecting approximately 60% to 75% of the global population. We estimate that there are approximately 600 million people globally with malocclusion who could benefit from straightening their teeth. However, most people afflicted by malocclusion do not seek orthodontic treatment for various reasons, including negative perceptions of metal braces, affordability of treatment, and accessibility to doctors. Annually, only approximately 22 million people globally elect treatment by orthodontists. Today, most orthodontic patients continue to have their malocclusions treated with the use of traditional corrective methods such as metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, augmented with elastics, metal expanders, headgear or functional appliances, and other ancillary 5 devices as needed. Upon completion of a patients treatment, their dental professional may recommend the patient use a retainer appliance to preserve the benefits of their treatment. Of the 22 million cases started each year, we estimate that almost all can be treated using our Invisalign system, yet our share of the 22 million case starts through orthodontists is approximately 10% globally. This represents a significant growth opportunity for us to increase our share of the existing market of orthodontic case starts, especially among teens, and expand the market for digital orthodontics, especially among adults. By training more doctors, including GPs as well as orthodontists, increasing utilization of existing doctors using our products, educating more consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign system and connecting consumers with an Invisalign-trained doctor of their choice, we are helping drive adoption of digital orthodontics and restorative dentistry globally. The Invisalign System The Invisalign system is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a proprietary computer-simulated virtual treatment plan and a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear polymer removable aligners. We received 510(k) clearance from the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market the Invisalign system in 1998. The Invisalign system offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and access to proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: Diagnosis and transmission of treatment data. As part of the Align Digital Workflow, Align has developed solutions to enable doctor diagnosis and drive patient conversion providing tools to support diagnosis of a patients oral health and support to identify an appropriate treatment pathway, facilitating the doctor-patient conversation, education and clinical needs and expectations. An Invisalign trained dental professional prepares an online prescription form on our Invisalign Doctor Site and securely submits the patient's records, which include a digital intraoral scan or a polyvinyl-siloxane (PVS) impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professionals election, x-rays of the patients dentition. Intraoral digital scans may be submitted through Aligns iTero scanner or certain third-party scanners capable of accurately interfacing with our systems and processes. Globally, more than 91% of Invisalign system prescription orders are now submitted via digital scan, increasing the accuracy of treatment plans, reducing the time from when the doctor submits the prescription to the time the patient receives the clear aligners, and helping to decrease the carbon footprint resulting from elimination of the initial or upfront shipment of the patients PVS impressions to the doctors and shipping those PVS impressions back to us. Computer-simulated treatment plan. Our ClinCheck treatment planning software is the cornerstone of the Align Digital Platform. ClinCheck Pro treatment planning software uses proprietary algorithms based on the insights from data from our more than17 million patients treated worldwide. Using the digital scans or PVS impressions, certain doctor preferences and digital data provided, we generate a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan, using proprietary software developed through significant, ongoing research and development investments spanning more than two decades. A patients ClinCheck treatment plan simulates desired tooth movement in stages and details the timing and placement of any features or attachments to be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored shapes that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to affect the desired movement(s). Review and approval of the treatment plan by an Invisalign trained doctor. The patients ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via Aligns Invisalign Doctor Site, enabling the dental professional to evaluate projected tooth movement from initial to final position and compare multiple treatment plan options. By reviewing, modifying as needed and approving the treatment plan, the dental professional retains control of the patients treatment. Manufacture of custom clear aligners. Following the dental professionals approval of a ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation as input in which we use stereolithography technology (a form of 3D printing technology) to construct a series of molds. Each mold is a replica of the patients teeth at each stage of the simulated course of treatment. From these molds, clear aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Clear aligners are thin, clear polymer, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series designed to correspond to each stage of the patient's ClinCheck treatment plan. Shipment to the dental professional and patient clear aligner wear. Once manufactured, all the clear aligners for a patient's doctor-approved treatment plan are typically shipped directly to the dental professional. The majority of doctors then dispense all of the clear aligners to the patient. Clear aligners are generally worn for one week or for a short period of time corresponding to the stages of the patients approved ClinCheck treatment plan and their doctors discretion. The patient replaces their current set of clear aligners with the next pair in the series when prescribed, advancing tooth movement through each stage. At various points in each patients treatment, their doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctors original prescription and the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. Additionally, for patients treated using many of our Invisalign system products, doctors have the option to order additional clear aligners for refinements. 6 Clear Aligner Products We offer our Invisalign system in a variety of treatment packages designed to correspond with the case-by-case treatment needs of our doctors and their patients and also designed on nonclinical needs. The table below provides a general description of the categories of Invisalign system products offered in various regions as they typically correspond to the severity of malocclusion and length of anticipated treatment. Malocclusion Very Mild Moderate Severe Product Invisalign Express Package Invisalign Lite Package Invisalign Go Limited Movement (GP) Invisalign Moderate Packages (& Invisalign Go Plus) Invisalign Comprehensive Packages Treatment Stages* 7 14 20 20-26 As many as required Clinical Scope Relapse and minor movement, anterior esthetic alignment Class I, mild crowding/spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Class I, no anterior / posterior correction, mild to moderate crowding, spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Tooth movement from 2nd premolar to 2nd premolar (5x5) Class I, mild Class II, mild to moderate crowding/spacing, mild anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, pre-restorative, (Go Plus tooth movement from 1st molar to 1st molar (6X6)) Class I, II, III, moderate to severe crowding/spacing, anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, extractions, complex pre-restorative * The number of stages can vary by product and region. Most of our Invisalign system products described above provide dental professionals with the option to order additional clear aligners if the patient's treatment deviates from the original treatment plan. The number and timing of additional clear aligner orders are subject to certain requirements noted in our terms and conditions. Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Comprehensive Packages. The Invisalign Comprehensive Package is used to treat adults and teens over a wide spectrum of mild to severe malocclusion and contains a broad variety of features to address the desired treatment goals. It also addresses the frequently complex orthodontic needs of teenage or younger patients with advanced features such as mandibular advancement, compliance indicators and compensation for tooth eruption. These packages include Invisalign Comprehensive, Invisalign FirstTM Phase 1 and Invisalign FirstTM Comprehensive Phase 2. Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Packages. Invisalign First Phase 1 Package is designed specifically for younger patients generally between the ages of six and ten years, who frequently have a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth. Invisalign First Phase 1 treatment provides early interceptive orthodontic treatment, traditionally done through arch expansion, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. Invisalign First Phase 1 clear aligners are designed specifically to address a wide range of younger patients' malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Our Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package complements Invisalign First Phase 1 and is generally consistent with our Invisalign Comprehensive Package. After a patient completes Invisalign First Phase 1, doctors have the option to purchase a Comprehensive Phase 2 Package for that same patient. In the first quarter of 2023, we launched the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product. The 3in3 configuration offers doctors Invisalign Comprehensive treatment with a three-year treatment expiration date and three additional clear aligners included prior to the treatment expiration date, instead of a five-year treatment expiration date with unlimited additional clear aligner sets prior to the treatment end date. Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product is available in North America and in certain markets in EMEA and APAC, most recently launching in China, Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Non-Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Non-comprehensive Packages. We offer a variety of lower priced treatment packages for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive relapse cases, or teeth straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments, such as veneers. These treatment packages include Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite, and Invisalign Moderate. These packages may be offered in select countries and/or may differ from region to region. 7 Invisalign Doctor Subscription Program (DSP) is our monthly subscription-based clear aligner program which includes retainers and low-stage touch-up clear aligner treatment. As of September 31, 2023, Invisalign DSP touch-up cases have been reclassified to non-comprehensive cases and are now reflected in our reported case volumes and metrics. Prior to this quarter, they were reported in the non-case category. DSP is currently available in the U.S., Canada, Iberia, Nordics and, most recently in the UK. Invisalign Go Packages. In various markets we also offer Invisalign GoTM, Invisalign GoTM Express and Invisalign Go Plus, streamlined Non-Comprehensive packages designed for GPs to more easily identify and treat patients with mild malocclusion. The Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus packages include case assessment support, simplified ClinCheck treatment plans and a progress assessment feature for case monitoring. Non-Case Products: Clear aligner non-case products include retention products, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment, ancillary Invisalign Accessory Products and other oral health products available in certain e-commerce and retail channels in the U.S. Retention. We offer up to four sets of custom clear aligners called Vivera retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse, if necessary, as well as Invisalign retainers. Retainers are generally available for doctors to offer to any of their patients, whether they use the Invisalign system or other products, including wires and brackets. In select markets, we also offer single set retainers. Invisalign Professional Whitening System. Additionally, we offer a professional whitening system using Ultradents Opalescence PF whitening system with Vivera retainers. New Products/Feature Enhancement Invisalign Palatal Expander. In December 2023, we received 510(k) clearance in the U.S. for the Invisalign Palatal Expanders.The Invisalign Palatal Expander System is intended for use in rapid expansion and subsequent holding of skeletal and/or dental narrow maxilla (upper jaw) with primary, mixed, or permanent dentition during patient treatment. It provides an alternative to traditional palatal expanders that require the daily manual turning of a screw in the device in the mouth to achieve expansion. The Invisalign Palatal Expander is our first direct 3D printed orthodontic device. Combined with Invisalign First aligners, Invisalign Palatal Expanders provide doctors with a full early intervention treatment solution such as Phase 1 or early interceptive treatment, traditionally done through arch expanders or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. The Invisalign Palatal Expander is currently available on a limited basis in Canada and the U.S. In January 2024, we completed the acquisition of Cubicure GmbH (Cubicure), a company that develops, produces and distributes innovative materials, equipment and processes for novel 3D printing solutions. Cubicures patented Hot Lithography technology uses a special heating and coating mechanism that enables the processing of highly viscous resins to produce tough and temperature-resistant polymers. We believe that the acquisition of Cubicure will support our long-term growth strategy by enabling us to scale our 3D printing operations to eventually direct print millions of custom appliances per day. We expect the acquisition of Cubicure will ultimately extend and scale our printing, materials and manufacturing capabilities for our 3D printed products while concurrently materially reducing the amount of resin used in our manufacturing process. Smart Technology: SmartTrackTM, SmartForceTM and SmartStageTM Smart technology is applied in the development of Invisalign treatments and leads to a more precise control of individual and multiple tooth movements. We use a force driven system in our Invisalign treatments such that the next clear aligner is shaped so that when inserted, the clear aligner stretches and applies the desired forces to the surface of the tooth, resulting in the desired tooth movement. Smart technology allows us to find the right thickness, the right elasticity, and the right force application over a period of time. Smart technology includes the use of SmartTrack, SmartForce and SmartStage Technology. SmartTrack. SmartTrack clear aligner material is a patented, custom-engineered Invisalign clear aligner material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional clear aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percentage of the force applied in the initial days of wear. SmartTrack material maintains more constant force over time. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. SmartForce. SmartForce attachments are small tooth-colored shapes that are attached to teeth before or during Invisalign treatment. Invisalign clear aligners fit smoothly and tightly around the attachments and give the clear aligners something to 8 gently push on. SmartForce attachments make complex tooth movements possible without braces by helping clear aligners apply the right amount of force in the right direction. SmartStage Technology. SmartStage is an advanced algorithm that determines the optimal path of tooth movement and the shape of the clear aligner at every stage of an Invisalign treatment. The programming determines tooth movement in a certain sequence, at the right time to achieve optimal outcomes with greater predictability and fewer undesirable interferences. Systems and Services Segment Intraoral scanning is a rapidly evolving technology substantially impacting the practice of dentistry. By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image (digital scan) of a patient's teeth using a handheld intraoral scanner, digital scanning is faster, more efficient, precise and comfortable for patients. Beginning patient care with the early use of our iTero intraoral scanners and combining the results with digital workflows designed to assist doctors and patients visualize and evaluate various treatment options with detailed imagery and CAD/CAM solutions is helping patients decide to undergo treatment and improve treatment outcomes and satisfaction. The accuracy of digitally scanned models substantially reduces the rate of restoration "remakes," meaning patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, increasing overall patient satisfaction. Digital models also reduce the carbon footprint associated with the shipping of the materials used to create PVS impressions, the shipping of those impressions and their disposal. Moreover, the digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; digital records storage; aid to caries detection; orthodontic diagnosis; orthodontic retainers and appliances; and Invisalign digital impression submission. iTero Scanner. The iTero Element portfolio of intraoral scanners includes the iTero Element 2, the iTero Element Flex, iTero Element 5D Imaging System, iTero Element Plus Series and the iTero Lumina which are each available in select regions and countries. These products build on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio and are available with software options for orthodontic and restorative procedures. The iTero scanner is interoperable with our Invisalign system such that a full arch or full mouth digital scan can be submitted as part of the Invisalign system prescription order submission process. Our iTero Element 5D Imaging System is the first integrated dental imaging system that simultaneously records 3D, intraoral color camera images, near infrared imaging (NIRI) technology and enables comparison over time using the iTero TimeLapse technology. NIRI technology, included in our iTero Element 5D and 5D Plus Imaging Systems, aids in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions above the gingiva without using harmful radiation. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System is available in the U.S., Canada, China, and the majority of EMEA and select APAC and LATAM countries and is pending regulatory approval in others. We received 510(k) clearance in the U.S. for the caries detection feature of the iTero Element 5D in 2020. The iTero Element Plus Series of intraoral scanners and imaging systems offers restorative and orthodontic digital workflows that include enhanced visualization for optimized patient experience, including a fully integrated 3D intraoral camera in certain models, seamless scanning with reduced processing time, artificial intelligence-based features, and, in certain models, NIRI technology. Our iTero Element scanners are offered in a number of software configurations such as Ortho Comprehensive, Restorative Comprehensive and Restorative Foundation. These software packages are included in the price of the scanner and have a service period of 1 to 5 years. They enable various orthodontic and restorative workflows as well as provide other applications, including Invisalign Outcome Simulator, Invisalign Case Assessment tool, Invisalign Progress Assessment tool, and iTero TimeLapse technology. Our iTero software is designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers. Our Restorative software is designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists and oral surgeons and includes restorative workflows providing the ability to send digital impressions to the lab of their choice and communicate seamlessly with external treatment planning, custom implant abutment, chairside milling and laboratory CAD/CAM systems such as through our iTero-exocad ConnectorTM. In January 2024, we launched the iTero Lumina intraoral scanner. The iTero Lumina intraoral scanner is designed with iTero Multi-Direct CaptureTM technology that we believe quickly, easily, and accurately captures more data while delivering exceptional scan quality and photorealistic images that eliminate the need for intraoral photos altogether. iTero Multi-Direct Capture replaces the confocal imaging technology in earlier intraoral scanner models. It has a wider field of capture and multi-angled scanning that enables simultaneous capture from multiple angles. Additionally, the iTero Lumina scanner has a capture distance of up to 25mm, making it easier to scan complex oral regions such as narrow or deep palates, edentulous spaces, and partially erupted teeth. It has a 50% smaller and 45% lighter wand (as compared to iTero Element 5D imaging system wand, excluding the wand cable), which is expected to be especially beneficial for kids and teen patients. The iTero Lumina scanner has photorealistic scans which enables high quality clinical decisions the same way intraoral photos do and its advanced software enables scanning at two times the speed. 9 Invisalign Outcome Simulator. The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is an exclusive chair-side and cloud-based application for the iTero scanner that allows doctors to help patients visualize how their teeth may look at the end of Invisalign treatment. This is achieved through a dual view layout that shows a prospective patient an image of their own current dentition next to a simulated final position after Invisalign treatment. Invisalign Progress Assessment Tool. The Invisalign Progress Assessment tool provides the ability to compare a patients new scan with a specific stage of their ClinCheck treatment plan, allowing doctors to visually assess and communicate Invisalign treatment progress with an easy-to-read, color-coded, tooth movement report. iTeroTM TimeLapse Technology. Our iTeroTM TimeLapse technology allows doctors or practitioners to compare a patients historic 3D scans to a present-day scan, enabling clinicians to identify and measure orthodontic movement, tooth wear, and gingival recession. This highlights areas of diagnostic interest to dental professionals and helps foster a proactive conversation with the patient regarding potential restorative or orthodontic solutions. AlignTM Oral Heatlh Suite. The AlignOral Health Suite is a digital interface designed to enhance dental consultations. It offers a modern approach to dental examinations, featuring a clinical framework that is designed to empower doctors and their clinic staff to conduct comprehensive oral health assessments via a single scan using patient-friendly terminology, and providing a highly engaging patient-centric experience. It integrates iTero diagnostic aid and visualization tools, such as iTero NIRI, iTero Occlusogram, iTero TimeLapse and Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro into a single interface chairside on the iTero scanner. CAD/CAM Services. Our exocad CAD/CAM software platform addresses restorative needs in an end-to-end digital platform workflow to facilitate ortho-restorative and comprehensive dentistry. The platform provides doctors and dental labs with digital clinical solutions that aid GPs and dental labs in planning and delivering restorative dental treatments, adding restorative functionality to our comprehensive digital platform to deliver digital ortho-restorative workflows and interdisciplinary dentistry. Our exocad software is licensed and sold separately. Other proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such as software embedded in our iTero scanners, ClinCheck and ClinCheck Pro software, the Invisalign Doctor Site, Align X-Ray Insights and feature enhancements included as part of the Invisalign system are not sold separately, nor do they contribute as individual items to revenues. Business Strategy Over the past 26 years, Align has helped doctors treat approximately 17 million patients with the Invisalign system and is driving the evolution in digital dentistry through the Align Digital Platform. Our technology and innovations are designed to meet the demands of todays patients with convenient, comfortable, and affordable treatment options, while improving overall oral health. We strive to help doctors and lab technicians move their businesses forward by connecting them with new patients, providing digital solutions that increase operational speed and efficiency and provide solutions that allow them to deliver exceptional treatment outcomes and experiences to millions of people around the world. We achieve this by focusing on and executing our strategic growth drivers: International Expansion. We continue increasing our presence globally by making our products available in more countries to more customers. We continue expansion of our sales and marketing by reaching into new countries and regions, including new areas within Africa and Latin America. As of the end of 2023, we are selling directly or through authorized distributors in more than 100 countries. As our business continues to grow in both number of new Invisalign trained doctors and customer utilization, we support that growth through targeted investments such as clinical support, product improvements, technological innovations, clinical education and advertising. In addition, we are scaling and expanding our operations and facilities to better support the growing numbers of global customers. As of the end of 2023, we have 13 fabrication and treatment locations throughout the world. We have a manufacturing facility in each of our three key regions: Americas (Mexico), APAC (China), and EMEA (Poland).Each of these three facilities represents a hub in our Regional Hub Model and together they form the foundation of our manufacturing strategy, which will continue to evolve to increase flexibility and optimize our capacity and cost structure. We also perform digital treatment planning and interpretation for restorative cases worldwide, including in Costa Rica, China, Germany, Spain, Poland, and Japan, among others. By establishing and expanding our key operational activities in locations closer to our customers, we are creating an infrastructure that allows us to be responsive to local and regional needs, while providing global operational flexibility and scale needed for variations in global and regional demand. We expect to continue expanding our business in 2024 by investing in resources, infrastructure and initiatives that help drive Invisalign treatment growth, position our intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital 10 dental scans, and establish our exocad CAD/CAM software as the solution of choice for dental labs in existing and new international markets. GP Dentist Treatment. We want to enable GPs, who have the potential to treat the general population, to more easily identify potential cases they can treat with the Invisalign system, monitor patient progress or, if needed, help refer cases to an orthodontist while providing high-quality restorative, orthodontic and dental hygiene care. We believe success with GPs can be achieved through doctor training and clinical education, by offering digital tools such as the iTero scanner and products like Invisalign Go treatment that address the distinctive needs of GP patients, all delivered by sales and marketing personnel specifically focused on the unique needs of this customer category. We encourage GPs to scan every patient with intraoral scanners as a means to diagnose and treat patients over time and as an opportunity to drive future demand for their services and the Invisalign system. In October 2021, the findings of a clinical study we sponsored were published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Dentistry which demonstrated that the NIRI technology of the iTero Element 5D imaging system was 66% more sensitive than bitewing x-ray radiography for detection of interproximal lesions, without the use of harmful radiation. Patient Demand. Our goal is to make the Invisalign brand a highly recognized name brand worldwide by creating awareness for Invisalign treatment among consumers and motivating the potential 600 million patients who can benefit from treatment of malocclusion to seek treatment using the Invisalign system. We accomplish this through an integrated consumer marketing strategy that includes television, media, social networking and event marketing and strategic alliances with professional sports teams, as well as educating patients on treatment options and directing them to high volume Invisalign trained doctors. To further drive consumer awareness, in 2023, we continued to offer additional dental-related Invisalign Accessory Products under the Invisalign brand name available in certain e-commerce channels in the U.S. Orthodontist Utilization. We continue to innovate and increase product applicability and predictability to address a wide range of cases, from simple to complex, thereby enabling doctors to confidently diagnose and treat children and adults with the Invisalign system. This is especially important to treating teenage patients who make up the largest portion of the 22 million annual orthodontic case starts. We also continue to make improvements to our Invisalign treatment software, ClinCheck Pro software, designed to deliver an exceptional user experience and increase treatment control to help doctors achieve their treatment goals. In combination with the new Invisalign system innovations that are part of the Align Digital Platform, we are enhancing the digital treatment planning experience for orthodontics by providing doctors with greater flexibility, consistency of treatment preferences and real-time treatment plan access and modification capabilities. Manufacturing and Suppliers We have regional fabrication facilities in our main markets for clear aligners, which are located in Juarez, Mexico; Ziyang, China; and Wroclaw, Poland. We have designed this Regional Hub Model to better serve our global customer base by being closer to our doctor customers and driving efficiencies in the business. We produce our handheld intraoral scanner wand, perform final scanner assembly and repair our scanners at our facilities in Ziyang, China and Petah Tikva, Israel and service and repair certain scanners in Juarez, Mexico. We also perform digital treatment planning and interpretation for restorative cases based on digital scans generated by our iTero intraoral scanners. Our digital treatment planning facilities are located worldwide, including in Costa Rica, China, Germany, Spain, Poland and Japan, among other international locations. Our quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA, and similar regulations enforced by other worldwide regulatory authorities. We are certified to ISO 13485:2016, an internationally recognized standard for medical device quality. We are routinely audited by third party certification bodies as well as global health authorities for our compliance to this quality standard as well as international regulations. We have a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved. Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service quality. We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed. Since the mass-customized treatment planning and manufacturing processes of our products requires substantial and varied technical expertise, we believe that our manufacturing capacity and capabilities are important to our success. In order to produce our highly-customized, highly-precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies. These technologies include complex software algorithms and solutions, including artificial intelligence and machine-learning based CAD/CAM software, Vision systems, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated 11 custom clear aligner fabrication equipment. To increase the efficiency and yield of our manufacturing processes, we continue to focus our efforts on software development, equipment development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes or bottlenecks. We continuously upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians. Moreover, to improve efficiency and increase the scale of our operations, we continue to invest in the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of clear aligners. In addition, predictable and consistent production is essential to our commitment to timely deliver products to our customers efficiently and profitably. Our production can be disrupted by such things as supply chain issues, production manufacturing software system issues and production equipment downtime. Accordingly, as we have grown our operations, we have included flexibility and resiliency in our overall manufacturing design to mitigate the risks of production downtime. Our manufacturing facilities include backup generators and systems and each facility has an emergency response plan that is part of ongoing employee training and testing through recurring cross functional scenario-based simulation exercises. Likewise, the Regional Hub Model provides us with greater flexibility and capacity to adjust and redirect production to one or more of our production facilities as needed. As part of our manufacturing resiliency design efforts, we have also considered climate change, climate-related risks - higher average global temperatures, rising sea levels and more frequent and severe wildfires, hurricanes, floods, winter storms, heat waves and other events and natural disasters (collectively, climate-related risks). We view climate-related risks to be one of many operational challenges we face, and factor them into our business continuity planning and strategic risk mitigation efforts. For instance, our manufacturing plants and operations may be impacted by extreme temperatures and weather, subjecting us to potential brownouts and blackouts, increased energy costs and capital investments needed to maintain ideal operating temperatures. Our manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico is located in an area classified as high-water stress and our operations could be impacted by water shortages, rationing and droughts. Our California, Costa Rica, Mexico and North Carolina operations are located in areas that have historically been impacted by extreme weather events such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires or flooding. In part to help mitigate risks to our manufacturing operations, we have strategically located our clear aligner production facilities in three facilities on different continents. This allows us to both respond more quickly to customer demand while also offering redundancy in the event natural disasters or climate-related events affect operations at one or more facilities. Moreover, each of our three key clear aligner manufacturing facilities are located at elevations less likely to be impacted by rising sea levels and at least two hundred miles inland. Moreover, we are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials for our clear aligners, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our intraoral scanners. We maintain single supplier relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies. In particular, our CT scanning and stereolithography equipment used in our clear aligner manufacturing and many of the critical components for the optics of our intraoral scanners are provided by single or sole source suppliers. We also currently purchase our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process for clear aligners, from a single source. A discussion of the risks of our supply and manufacturing operations, including foreign operations, may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on increasing adoption and utilization of the Invisalign system and Vivera retainers by orthodontists and GPs worldwide and integrating the iTero scanner and services and exocad CAD/CAM products into dental labs and practices. The iTero scanner is an important component to the customer experience and is central to a digital approach as well as overall customer utilization of Invisalign clear aligners. In each region, we have direct sales, marketing and support organizations, which include quota carrying sales representatives, sales management and sales administration. We also have distribution partners in certain markets. Our sales and marketing personnel are organized primarily to support orthodontists and GPs separately, allowing highly trained and specialized personnel to serve each customer channel, thereby increasing our focus and effectiveness on both. We continue to expand in existing markets through targeted investments in sales resources, professional marketing and education programs. Additionally, our consumer marketing programs are designed to create awareness and educate consumers on the benefits of Invisalign treatment and Vivera retainers, including where they can find a trained doctor to provide treatment. 12 We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 125,800 active Invisalign trained doctors. We define doctors as active if they have submitted at least one Invisalign case in the prior 12-month period. Research and Development We are committed to investing in world-class digital technology development, which we believe is critical to achieving our goal of establishing the Invisalign system as the standard method for treating malocclusion, our intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans, and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the solution of choice for dental labs. Our research and development activities are directed toward developing digital technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation of products and solutions as part of the Align Digital Platform. These activities range from accelerating product and clinical innovation, to developing manufacturing process improvements, to researching future technologies, products and software. In an effort to demonstrate the broad treatment capabilities of the Invisalign system, more than 200 peer-reviewed publications and various clinical case studies and articles have been published that highlight the clinical applicability of Invisalign treatment to malocclusion cases, including addressing malocclusions of severe complexity. Similarly, various studies have also been published demonstrating the capabilities of our scanners, including advanced features such as our NIRI technology. We undertake pre-commercialization trials and testing of our technological improvements to our products and manufacturing process. We furthermore fund research in the field of orthodontics and dentistry through initiatives such as our Annual Research Award Program, which was in its 14th year in 2023 and donations to the American Association of Orthodontists Foundation. Intellectual Property We believe our intellectual property portfolio represents a substantial business advantage. As of December 31, 2023, we had 866 active U.S. patents, 954 active foreign patents, and 884 pending global patent applications. Our active U.S. patents expire between 2024 and 2042. When patents expire, we lose the protection and competitive advantages they provided, which could negatively impact our operating results; however, as we continue to pursue new innovations, we seek intellectual property protection for new inventions and know-how through U.S. and foreign patent applications and non-disclosure agreements. We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We furthermore have a broad and diverse trademark portfolio that we use to highlight and protect our universally recognized brands. Information regarding risks associated with our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Seasonal Fluctuations General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and we have historically experienced seasonal trends within our two operating segments, customer channels and the geographic locations that we serve. Sales of the Invisalign system are often weaker in Europe, especially southern European countries during the summer months due to our customers and their patients being on holiday and seasonally higher in China during the third quarter. Similarly, other international holidays like Lunar New Year can impact our sales in APAC in the first quarter. In North America, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients as many parents start their children in treatment before the school year begins. Conversely, many GPs are on vacation during this time and therefore tend to start fewer cases. For our Systems and Services segment, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Consequently, these seasonal trends have caused and may continue to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. However, our typical seasonal patterns have been impacted by macroeconomic uncertainty including changes in foreign exchange rates, military conflicts, and inflation and other macroeconomic challenges. It remains unclear when or if our seasonal fluctuations will return to historical norms. Competition Competition in the clear aligner market continues to increase. Our clear aligner products compete directly against traditional orthodontic treatments that use metal brackets and wires and increasingly against clear aligner products manufactured and distributed by various companies, both within and outside the U.S. Although the number of competitors varies by segment, product, geography and customer, they include new and well-established regional competitors in certain foreign markets, as well as larger companies, divisions of larger companies or well-capitalized new entrants with substantial sales, marketing, research and financial capabilities. We also compete with direct-to-consumer (DTC) companies that provide 13 clear aligners directly to the consumer requiring little or no in-office care from doctors and also from doctors themselves who can manufacture retainers and custom clear aligners using 3D printing technology. In addition, corresponding foreign patents began expiring in 2018 which has increased competition outside the U.S. Additionally, we face competition in the rapidly evolving markets for intraoral scanners and software solutions, including CAD/CAM. The global intraoral scanner market is very dynamic with participants spanning from traditional dental conglomerates to companies dedicated primarily to scanner development and sales with new entrants playing larger roles. The iTero intraoral scanner also competes with traditional PVS impressions that doctors use for clear aligner therapy or other dental procedures, as well as other intraoral scanners. It also competes with traditional bite wing 2D dental x-rays for detecting interproximal caries. Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. We believe we are well positioned to compete in the markets we target. We have thousands of dedicated, highly skilled sales force employees who are focused on key demographics in our target markets that allow us to uniquely address customer needs and thereby enhance the customer experience. Our significant historical and ongoing investments in research and development and design around the movement of teeth, SmartTrack aligner materials and design, intraoral scanning, 3D manufacturing, global scale of manufacturing and treatment planning, strong brand name recognition, strong workforce, diversified and knowledgeable customer base, geographic expansion, reliable financial results, leading digital platform, technology and IP, next wave of innovation with direct 3D printing and innovations powered by AI enabling more personalized care, and regulatory clearance of our products are among a few of our key competitive factors that compare favorably with our competitors products and services. Government Regulation Many countries throughout the world have established regulatory frameworks for commercialization of medical devices. As a designer, manufacturer, and marketer of medical devices, we are obligated to comply with the respective frameworks of these countries to obtain and maintain access to these global markets. The frameworks often define requirements for marketing authorizations which vary by country. Failure to obtain appropriate marketing authorization and to meet all local requirements, including specific quality and safety standards and new software and artificial intelligence standards in any country in which we currently market our products, could cause commercial disruption and/or subject us to sanctions and fines. Delays in receipt of, or a failure to receive, such marketing authorizations, or the loss of any previously received authorizations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With regards to premarket authorization in the U.S., many of our products are classified as medical devices under the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act). The FD&C Act requires these products, when sold in the U.S., to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with medical device regulations defined by the FDA. The regulatory framework depends on a set of written processes for ensuring consistent quality called a Quality Management System (QMS) coupled with a product marketing authorization which depends on the risk classification of the product. This regulatory framework is comparable to the framework established in the European Union (EU). Within the EU, our products are subject to the requirements defined by the Medical Device Regulation EU 2017/745 which replaced the Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC with a final transition date of May 26, 2021. Similar market access regulations exist in Brazil, China, Japan and other countries. Our QMS is routinely audited by certification bodies as well as country regulators for compliance with applicable regulations. We believe we are in compliance with all state, federal, and international regulatory requirements applicable to our products. We are also subject to various laws around the world that govern interactions with our customers as healthcare professionals or government officials. The laws govern different interactions and may include: prohibiting improper influence of or payments to healthcare professionals, other decision makers or purchasers of medical devices and government officials; setting out rules for when and how to engage healthcare professionals as our third-party vendors; requiring price reporting regulations; requiring marketing of our products within the regulatory approval (e.g., on label) promotion, sale and marketing of our products and services; the importing and exporting of our products; the operation of our facilities and distribution of our products; and disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals and entities. As we expand our operations footprint, countries to which we sell and invest in new business models, compliance with applicable laws becomes more complex and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent oversight and enforcement. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies, and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business. 14 Our customers are healthcare providers that may be reimbursed by state or federal funded programs such as Medicaid, a foreign national healthcare program, or private pay insurance, each of which may offer some degree of oversight. As a medical device manufacturer and seller, we are subject to transparency reporting laws (also known as sunshine laws) that in certain countries and U.S. states require us to report transfers of value to healthcare professionals that perform services or receive other items from us (e.g., meals, travel, branded promotional or educational items, or other benefits of value). Many government agencies, both domestic and foreign, have increased their mining of this data and have used this data to drive enforcement activities with respect to healthcare providers and companies in recent years. Enforcement actions and associated efforts to respond or defend against such actions can be expensive, and any resulting findings carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. In addition, we must comply with numerous data protection and data governance laws that do or will soon regulate or restrict cross border data transfers, such as in the EU, Switzerland, U.S. Federal and States, Brazil, China, Vietnam, Japan, Korea, and other countries. In the U.S., we may be required to comply with final regulations implementing amendments to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the associated HIPAA Security Rule, and are in the same position as other companies working to ensure our global privacy program framework incorporate new country and state laws so that our product innovations comply with these increasingly complex laws. We also have information security, privacy and cybersecurity policies to protect confidential personal information and confidential company information. We have internal monitoring and detection systems to safeguard against cyber attacks. We have implemented a security awareness and phishing program to educate our users about the importance of cybersecurity. We evaluate products to ensure compliance with cybersecurity regulations. We have established a business resiliency program and perform regular backups of our critical information technology (IT) systems to protect against business interruption. In addition, we periodically scan our external environment for vulnerabilities, perform annual external penetration tests and engage an independent third party to assess effectiveness of our security practices for critical IT systems. We also have cybersecurity and other forms of insurance coverage related to a breach event covering expenses for notification, credit monitoring, investigation, crisis management, public relations and legal advice. Information regarding risks associated with data security and privacy may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws, including provisions that regulate the purchase, use, distribution, and environmental impact of hazardous substances used in our operations, contained within our products and the packaging associated with our products. We are also subject to environmental laws applicable to our manufacturing facilities and operations, including environmental health and safety regulations. The number and rate at which these regulations are being proposed and implemented are increasing at the regional, country and local territorial levels, requiring greater diligence, governance and skills to manage. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with existing and new laws and regulations in the future. Information regarding risks associated with environmental laws and regulations may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Human Capital We believe our culture and commitment to employees provide unique value that benefits Align, its stockholders and the communities and other stakeholders we serve. Every employee, and every job, is important to our success and helps us achieve our purpose of transforming smiles and changing lives. Align is committed to building a workforce of diverse cultural backgrounds and life experiences. Fostering a culture of dignity, integrity, open dialogue, open-mindedness, compassion, fairness, recognition, and shared goals allows us to attract and retain the best talent, which has ultimately led to the growth and success of our company. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 21,610 employees, a decrease of approximately 6.7% and 4.1% over December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, respectively. The number of employees for each of the last five years and our employees roles as of December 31, 2023 are as follows: 15 We are a global organization with more than 90% of our employees located internationally, primarily in direct-labor roles in our manufacturing and clinical treatment planning facilities. Set forth in the following paragraphs are some of the most important elements of our culture and commitment to our employees. Governance. Our commitment to improving the lives of our employees and the communities in which we live and work, including conducting our business ethically, responsibly and transparently through open and clear disclosures that allow us and others to hold us accountable, begins with our Board of Directors (Board) and management team. They set the tone for our organization by establishing and clearly communicating our core values of Agility, Customer and Accountability that inform our culture. Our Global Code of Conduct (Code) and quality policies are designed to enable us to operate with integrity and deliver superior treatment outcomes and experiences to patients. We seek to create an environment that values the health, safety and well-being of our teams, and we work to equip them with the knowledge and skills to serve our business and develop their careers. We believe that by effectively managing our business with these values as the foundation, we will drive long-term value for our stockholders and all stakeholders. As part of our Boards commitment to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts, the Board has delegated ESG oversight responsibility to our Nominating and Governance Committee. The evolution of our ESG programs was furthered in 2022 when our Board amended the charter of our Compensation Committee to specifically include oversight responsibilities of all human capital management strategies, programs and policies in addition to its oversight of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. In doing so, the Board deemed it important to rename the committee to the Compensation and Human Capital Committee in recognition of its additional human capital management oversight responsibilities. The Compensation and Human Capital Committee regularly reviews and discusses key performance indicators regarding employee and human capital that allow it to monitor trends on issues such as our total headcount, recruiting, attrition, career development, diversity, inclusion and belonging, compensation, benefits, and other measures of employee engagement and interest to management and the committee. Diversity. Fostering diversity and encouraging inclusion and belonging in the workplace makes Align a more welcoming and enjoyable place to work. Our products and services are used broadly across age groups, gender identities, races, ethnicities, and cultures, so we aim to build a workforce that optimally reflects this diversity. We believe our success continues to be driven by our focus on integrating and welcoming employees of all different backgrounds, orientations, beliefs, perspectives and capabilities into our workforce. Our employees bring a positive mix of ethnic and culturally diverse backgrounds to the more than 40 different countries in which we operate. Our largest population of employees work in our Mexico site followed by Costa Rica and China. The United States represents approximately 10% of our global population. 16 Our management team is comprised of diverse individuals from varying countries and nationalities and who are committed to promoting and encouraging the health and well-being of our employees at work, at home and in society in general. We provide employee experiences that encourage inclusion and diversity. We were recognized in Newsweeks list of Americas Greatest Workplaces for Diversity in 2024. Our work culture is designed to create financial, health, career and personal benefits for our employees and organization. We sponsor diverse and cultural recognition events to increase awareness of inclusion and diversity, including its importance in creating an environment where every employee can thrive and feel they belong. We also sponsor employee resource groups based on shared characteristics or life experiences which are open to all employees, including those who do not directly identify with other members but are passionate in supporting the group's members in creating an educated, supportive and inclusive culture. Talent Recruitment and Engagement. We employ a variety of career development, employee benefits, compensation and other policies and programs designed to attract, develop, and retain employees. We focus on building a talent pipeline that nurtures those early in their careers, encourages continuous learning and growth, and incentivizes employees to stay and contribute to our success over the long term. Our programs include early recruitment at high schools and universities, initiatives such as internships, co-ops, apprenticeships, and training programs, quarterly performance management check-ins focused on individual goals and commitment to values and conducting regular employee surveys to build trust and strengthen relationships. Our efforts have resulted in numerous awards for our positive work environment and culture. Some of the certifications, awards and recognitions recognized or received in 2023 and 2024 include: Best Places to Work for Women in Korea Computerworld Best Place to Work in IT, based on its survey of organizations across the U.S. to identify those that provide the best benefits and amenities for IT professionals Dun & Bradstreet Top Tech Companies to Work for in Israel Great Places to Work and Best Places to Work based on our employee-validated great workplaces in the following countries, Australia, Brazil, China, Costa Rica, Germany, India, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, UK, Vietnam and United States (Raleigh, North Carolina) Forbes Worlds Best Employers LinkedIn Top Companies to Grow Your Career in Israel and Poland Mercer Outstanding Women Care Award in China U.S. News & World Report- Best Companies to Work For and Best Companies to Work For in the Health Care Industry We believe it is imperative to provide a vibrant employee experience and we value our employees collective voices. Accordingly, we conduct employee surveys to collect employee feedback critical to improving our culture. The process serves as a wellness check for us as the surveys cover a broad variety of topics including engagement, inclusion, development, leadership, compliance, alignment and enablement. Our response rates to our annual surveys are consistently high, reflecting strong engagement by our global employees. In 2023, after years of focusing on an annual census survey where we consistently had high response rates and high scores in overall engagement, we moved to a continuous employee listening strategy. This listening strategy includes globally managed pulse surveys, employee lifecycle surveys, and a self-service feature to support listening efforts for our global employees. We use information learned from our surveys to improve the employee experience, including enhancements to our workplaces, focus on employee connections, increased career development opportunities, support for relocated employees, and growth in our recognition programs and experiences. Training and Professional Development. Training is an integral part of developing and retaining our employees and creating a culture of leadership within the Company. Training at Align begins with our Code and our strong commitment to ethical business practices in all aspects of our operations. Every employee and contractor is required to review the Code and confirm they understand it. We routinely reference the Code in presentations and as part of everyday operations. As a further part of our standard onboarding program, we train employees on important environmental health and safety topics to protect them and our environment as we operate our business. As a general practice, employees are trained to perform their jobs in accordance with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and that training is routinely refreshed and re-administered. 17 At Align, we believe employees learn best when skill development is driven by the changing and immediate needs of our employees and by the empowerment of all employees to take action and ownership of their careers. We also believe learning should be relevant and actionable as well as rooted in our purpose and values. Develop@Align enables our global employee population to access a diverse portfolio of approximately one thousand self-directed courses in up to 80 languages. We also offer a full suite of custom leadership development programs, beginning with aspiring leaders, continuing with managers and directors, and culminating with executive development opportunities. The ways in which we work, collaborate, and develop has transformed in recent years and will continue to change and evolve rapidly. We recognize that we must provide employees with the resources to continue to learn, grow, and thrive. We created Voyage as a global initiative to serve this purpose. Voyage offers a set of tools, resources and a new mindset, empowering employees to start thinking differently about career growth by embracing development opportunities in new and sometimes unexpected ways. Our Voyage Compass helps employees experience their career through four distinct lenses: Self, Networks, Experience and Skills. Since its launch, over 45% of the employee population has interacted with Voyage, and there have been over 108,000 visits to the Voyage website. In addition to our navigation site, we host two Voyage Set Sail weeks annually, where we offer experiential learning for individuals and teams utilizing activities that help keep professional development front and center in employees minds. Compensation and Benefits. Our commitment to our employees starts with benefit and compensation programs that reflect the value and the contributions our employees make. In addition to competitive base pay, we offer an assortment of benefits that vary by country, including performance-based variable compensation programs, health and welfare benefit plans, retirement planning services and benefits, holiday and leave policies, equity participation programs such as our Incentive Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and charitable and community service opportunities. Besides these, we also offer discounts to our employees and their dependents when they undergo Invisalign treatment. We are furthermore committed to pay equity practices. We exceed minimum pay requirements for our manufacturing employees and we regularly review our pay equity practices globally and locally so that we can appropriately address discrepancies. Health, Wellness and Safety. Our employees are essential to us as a business and their health and well-being is critical to our success and their continuing achievements. Our objective is to prevent injuries and occupational diseases by focusing first and foremost on creating and maintaining environments that are safe. We therefore offer a wide variety of robust programs and initiatives designed to promote the overall health and welfare of all our employees and their families. It is our responsibility to support the health and well-being of our employees. Every year, we have a month dedicated to well-being, called Month of Wellness, which is a worldwide movement fostering employee health. Throughout the Month of Wellness, employees participate in a variety of activities such as informational sessions and health fairs and receive useful resources aligned to our wellness pillars - mental resilience, physical well-being and healthy living, social/family connections, and financial wellness. This provides employees with a variety of meaningful ways to embrace wellness and well-being through mindfulness, meditation, nutrition and mental wellness activities, exercise, hikes, yoga, volunteer activities, financial education sessions, social events and stress management. We have environmental, health, safety and sustainability personnel who are responsible for ensuring health and safety programs and processes are maintained and effective at each of our locations. Major worksites, such as our clear aligner fabrication sites, and large offices have dedicated Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) departments that ensure health and safety programs are maintained while contributing Best Management Practices (BMP) and general input to corporate-wide programs. Each EHS department is responsible for ensuring all employees at their location are properly trained on various EHS topics and at the appropriate frequencies. A training suite is determined for each employee depending on their responsibilities and function modeled off ISO 45001. Community. We actively encourage employees to support local charitable organizations by providing opportunities for volunteerism, team building, and donation and matching programs. In 2023, our employees continued to make us proud through their generosity and dedication, especially during our annual Month of Smiles initiative in October where we encourage our employees to make a difference individually and as teams through volunteer activities, charitable donations, fundraising, and intentional acts of goodness. In addition, through our Align Foundation, we support organizations whose visions closely align with our mission to improve smiles, supporting and educating teens, and empowering our customers through partnerships with learning institutions and foundations. Below are some of our key community initiatives in 2023: We were honored as a Technology Partner of the Year by Junior Achievement, an organization that delivers hands on, immersive learning in work readiness, financial health, entrepreneurship, sustainability, STEM, economics, and more. In addition, we held several volunteer activities with Junior Achievement including hosting the first artificial intelligence career summit for around 200 high school students in our San Jose, California office. 18 Since 2013 we have been a proud supporter of Operation Smile, a global medical nonprofit providing hundreds of thousands of free surgeries for people born with cleft lips and cleft palates in low and middle-income countries. For the third year, we sponsored Operation Smiles International Student Leadership Conference, a powerful opportunity for high schoolers around the world to develop leadership skills and impact their communities. As part of our sponsorship, we provided scholarships for 24 participants from 8 different countries, plus an additional 10 scholarships for students personally impacted with a cleft condition. As of December 31, 2023, we had donated approximately $2.7 million to Operation Smile. For 16 years we have supported Americas ToothFairy, an organization with a mission to ensure underserved children in the United States have access to dental care and learn about oral health by supporting nonprofit clinics and community partners. As of December 31, 2023, we have provided almost $2 million for the foundations operational expenses and childrens oral health programs. As a result of our support, more than 1.3 million children living with restricted access to care in communities across the country received dental care and/or oral health instruction through Americas ToothFairy programs and the safety-net dental clinics they support. We also provide product donations to the dental community to help patients in need of healthy, beautiful smiles. For more information on our charitable and community efforts, please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility portion of our corporate website located at https://www.aligntech.com/about/corporate_social_responsibility. Available Information Our corporate website is www.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website is http://investor.aligntech.com. The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC. Further, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. 19 Information about our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 28, 2024: Name Age Position Period Joseph M. Hogan 66 President and Chief Executive Officer of Align Chief Executive Officer of ABB Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare 2015-Present 2008-2013 2000-2008 John F. Morici 57 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Finance of Align Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Global Finance of Align Chief Financial Officer of Align Executive Vice President and Managing Director of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating Officer of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NBC Universal North America Home Entertainment 2022-Present 2018-2022 2016-2018 2014-2016 2011-2014 2007-2011 Julie Coletti 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer of Align Senior Vice President, Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer of Align Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Strategic Commercial Affairs of Align Vice President, Global General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Danaher Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary of Bayer HealthCare's MEDRAD/Radiology and Interventional Division 2022-Present 2019-2022 2018-2019 2013-2017 2007-2013 Stuart Hockridge 52 Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources of Align Senior Vice Present, Global Human Resources of Align Vice President, Global Human Resources of Align Vice President of Talent of Visa 2022-Present 2018-2022 2016-2018 2013-2016 Emory M. Wright 54 Executive Vice President, Global Operations of Align Senior Vice President, Global Operations of Align Vice President, Operations of Align Various roles at Align including Vice President, Manufacturing 2022-Present 2018-2022 2007-2018 2000-2007 Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including those described below. When any one or more of these risks materialize from time to time, the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be materially and adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys results of operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Therefore, you should review this section carefully, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and other information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for important information regarding these and other risks that may affect us. Additionally, you should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Macroeconomic and External Risks Our operations and financial performance depend on global and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in consumer confidence and demand, and general economic weakness and threats, or actual recessions, have and could in the future materially affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Macroeconomic conditions impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can adversely affect demand for our products. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, inflation, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, general economic weakness, threats or actual recessions, pandemics, wars and military actions, employment levels, wages, debt obligations, discretionary income, interest rates, volatility in capital, and consumer confidence and perceptions of 20 current and future economic conditions. Macroeconomic conditions can, among other things, reduce or shift spending away from elective procedures, drive patients to pursue less costly orthodontic treatments, decrease the number of orthodontic case starts, reduce patient traffic in dentists offices or reduce demand for dental services generally. Further, decreased demand for dental services can cause dentists and labs to postpone investments in capital equipment, such as intraoral scanners and CAD/CAM equipment and software. The declines in, or uncertain economic outlooks for, the U.S., Chinese, European and certain other international economies have and may continue to adversely affect consumer and dental practice spending. Increases in the cost of fuel and energy, food and other essential items as well as higher interest rates have and may continue to reduce consumers' disposable income, which could cause a decrease in discretionary spending for products like ours. Further, we cannot predict the impact of efforts by central banks and federal, state and local governments to combat inflation, which could result in an economic recession or have an adverse impact on consumer spending may for a prolonged period of time. Inflation continues to adversely impact spending and trade activities, causing unpredictable impacts on global and regional economies. Higher inflation has also increased domestic and international shipping costs, raw material prices, and labor rates, which has adversely impacted the costs of producing, procuring and shipping our products. Our ability to recover these cost increases through price increases may continue to lag, resulting in downward pressure on our operating results. Attempts to offset cost increases with price increases may reduce sales, increase customer dissatisfaction or otherwise harm our reputation. Any of these events could materially affect our business and operating results. We have significant international operations and sales and we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies that have adversely impacted our business or results of operations. Although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a large portion of our expenses, net revenues and net income are generated in foreign currencies. While we utilize forward contracts to moderate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations have and may continue to materially adversely effect our operating results and cash flows. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets, liabilities and cash flows that we do not hedge have and could in the future materially impact our financial results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to foreign currencies. Our business could be impacted by geopolitical events, trade and other international disputes, war, and terrorism, or major public health crises. Political events, trade and other international disputes, war and terrorism, or major public health crises have and could in the future harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy and could materially effect our business as well as our customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, and other business partners. Such risks include supply chain and trade disruptions, tariffs, trade sanctions or restrictions, boycotts, reduced consumer spending, government shut downs, or cyberattacks, energy shortages or power outages, energy rationing that adversely impacts our manufacturing facilities, rising fuel or rising costs of producing, procuring and shipping our products, constraints, volatility or disruption in the financial markets, deaths or injuries to our employees, restrictions and shortages of food, water, shelter, and medical supplies, telecommunications failures or destruction of property. Tariffs, such as those on Chinese goods, and responses to the tariffs may increase the cost of our products and the components and raw materials used to make them. Increased costs could adversely impact our gross margin and reduce demand for our products. Countries may also adopt other measures, such as controls on the import or export of goods, technology or data, that would adversely impact our operations and supply chains or limit our ability to offer products and services. These measures could require us to take various actions, including changing suppliers or restructuring business relationships. Complying with new or changed trade restrictions is expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice and we may be unable to effectively mitigate any adverse impacts. Political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, or major public health crises involving key commercial, development or manufacturing markets such as China, Mexico, Israel, Europe, or other countries have and could again materially impact our international operations. The impact to us, our employees and customers would be uncertain, particularly if emergency circumstances, armed conflicts or an escalation in political instability or violence, or viral out-breaks disrupt our product development, data or information exchange, payroll or banking operations, product or materials shipping by us or our suppliers. Our internation operations would also be impacted by other unanticipated business disruptions, interruptions and limitations in telecommunication services or critical systems or applications reliant on a stable and uninterrupted communications infrastructure. Military conflicts and global pandemicshave materially adversely impacted our global economies. For example, our commercial operations in Russia were impacted by the conflict in Ukraine and we were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our iTero operations, headquartered in Israel, are close to areas that have been affected by ongoing violence and military action in the Middle East and this may impact our employees as well as our iTero business. Some employees and consultants in Israel have been called for military service in the current conflict in the Middle East and they may be absent for an unknown period of time. Furthermore, our facility may be damaged or supply chains impaired as a result of hostilities which could disrupt ongoing operations and impact our financial results. The conflict in the Middle East may materially impact the timing and cost of shipping of our products, our ability to operate out of Israel, or lead to sanctions or boycotts which could impact our sales and 21 revenues. Additionally, the recent election in Taiwan and Chinas territorial conflicts with other neighboring countries may impact our operations and sales in China. We cannot predict the progress or outcome of these events or the reactions by governments, businesses or consumers but they could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by natural disasters, which may become more frequent or severe as a result of climate change, and may adversely impact our business and operating results as well as those of our customers and suppliers. Natural disasters can impact our operations as well as those of our customers and suppliers. Natural disasters include earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, droughts, hurricanes, wildfires, and extreme weather conditions that cause deaths, injuries, and critical health crises, power outages, property damage restrictions and shortages of food, water, shelter, and medical supplies, telecommunications failures, materials scarcity, price volatility and other ramifications. Climate change is likely to increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters and, consequently, the risks to our operations and financial results. Our digital dental modeling and certain of our customer facing operations are primarily processed in our facilities in Costa Rica, our iTero scanners are primarily manufactured in China and Israel, and our aligner molds and finished aligners are fabricated in China, Mexico and Poland. These zones are susceptible to natural disasters and their indirect effects. If a natural disaster occurs in a region where one of these facilities or those of our customers or suppliers are located, our employees could be impacted, research lost, and ability to create treatment plans, respond to customer inquiries or manufacture and ship our aligners or intraoral scanners could be compromised, causing significant product and services delays. The effects of climate change on regional and global economies could change the supply, demand or availability of sources of energy or other resources material to our products and operations and affect the availability or cost of natural resources and goods and services on which we and our suppliers rely. Business and Industry Risks Demand for our products may not increase or may decrease due to resistance to non-traditional treatment methods, which could have a material impact on our business and operating results. Our products require our customers to change from traditional treatment methods. For example, Invisalign treatment is a significant change from traditional orthodontic metal wires and brackets, and customers and consumers may not find it cost-effective or preferable. A number of dental professionals believe Invisalign treatment is only appropriate for a limited percentage of patients. Additionally, our clear aligners and iTero products utilize digital technology and some dental professionals have been and may continue to resist moving to a digital platform. Increased acceptance of our products depends in part on the recommendations of dental professionals, as well as other factors including efficacy, safety, ease of use, reliability, aesthetics and price compared to competing products and treatment methods. If demand for our products fails to increase, or decreases, our business, including our financial and operating results, may be harmed. Our net revenues depend primarily on our Invisalign system and iTero scanners and declines in sales or average selling price of these products may adversely affect net revenues, gross margin and net income. Our net revenues remain largely dependent on sales of our Invisalign system of clear aligners and iTero intraoral scanners. Of the two, we expect the Invisalign system will continue to account for the majority of our net revenues, making the widespread acceptance of the Invisalign system by orthodontists, GPs and consumers critical to our success. The average selling prices of our products, particularly the Invisalign system, are influenced by numerous factors, including the type and timing of products sold (particularly the timing of orders for additional clear aligners for certain Invisalign products) and foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we sell a number of products at different list prices which may differ based on country. Our average selling prices for our Invisalign system and iTero scanners have been impacted in the past and may be adversely affected in the future if: we introduce new promotions, change existing promotions, or offer general or volume-based discount programs, product or services bundles, large account sales or consumer rebate programs; participation in promotions or programs unexpectedly increases, decreases or changes demand in material ways; our geographic, channel or product mix shifts to lower priced products or to products with a higher percentage of deferred revenue; we decrease prices on one or more products or services in response to increasing competitive pricing pressures; we introduce new or change existing products or services, or modify how we market or sell any of our new or existing products or services; governments impose pricing regulations such as volume-based procurement regulations in China; or estimates used in the calculation of deferred revenue differ from actual average selling prices. To stimulate product and services demand, we have a history of offering volume discounts, price reductions and other promotions to targeted customers and consumers and releasing lower priced products. These promotional campaigns and lower 22 priced products have had, and may in the future have, unexpected and unintended consequences, including reduced gross margins, profitability and average selling prices, net revenues, volume growth, and net income. Competition in the markets for our products is increasing and we expect aggressive competition from existing competitors, other companies that introduce new technologies or products in the future and customers who alone or with others create orthodontic appliances and solutions or other products or services that compete with us. The dental industry is experiencing immense and rapid digital transformation. While solutions such as our Invisalign system, iTero scanners and CAD/CAM software facilitate this transition, we face competition from companies that also seek to introduce new technologies and products and companies that remain dedicated to conventional products. We may be unable to compete with these competitors or they may render our technology or products obsolete or economically unattractive. The number and types of competitors are diverse and growing rapidly. The Invisalign system competes primarily with traditional metal wires and brackets and increasingly against clear aligners which are manufactured and distributed by new and existing market entrants, including traditional medical device companies, laboratories, startups and, in some cases, doctors and Dental Support Organizations (DSOs). Our competitors also include DTC companies that provide clear aligners using a remote business model requiring little or no in-office care from trained and licensed doctors, and doctors and DSOs who manufacture custom aligners in their offices using 3D printing technology. Large consumer product companies may also start supplying orthodontic products. Orthodontists, GPs and DSOs have and may continue to sample competitive and alternative products and take advantage of competitive promotions and sale opportunities. Our iTero scanners are also facing increased competition. iTero scanners compete with polyvinyl siloxane (PVS) impressions and numerous new or existing intraoral scanners. They also compete with traditional bite wing 2D dental x-rays for detecting interproximal caries. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing products, existing competitors, new market entrants, or respond effectively to new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop, introduce, achieve market acceptance of, and manage new products and services. Our success depends on our ability to quickly and profitably develop, manufacture, market, obtain and maintain regulatory approval or clearance of new products and services along with improvements to existing products and services. We cannot assure successful development, sales or acceptance of our new or improved products and services. The extent and rate at which new products or services achieve market acceptance and penetration is a function of many variables, including our ability to: successfully predict, timely innovate and develop new technologies, applications and products preferred by customers and consumers that have features and functionality to meet the needs of patients; successfully, and in a timely fashion, obtain regulatory approval or clearance of new and improved products or services from government agencies such as the FDA and analogous agencies in other countries; cost-effectively and efficiently develop, manufacture, quality test, market, dispose of, and sell new or improved products and services offerings, including localized versions for international markets; properly forecast the amount and timing of new or improved product and services demand; allocate our research and development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; ensure the compatibility of our technology, services and systems with those of our customers; anticipate and rapidly innovate in response to new competitive products and services offerings and technologies; differentiate our products and services from our competitors as well as other products and services in our own portfolio and successfully articulate the benefits to our customers; manage the impact of nationalism or initiatives encouraging consumer purchases from domestic vendors; qualify for third-party reimbursement for procedures involving our products or services; offer attractive and competitive service and subscription plans; encourage customers to adopt new technologies and provide the needed technical, sales and marketing support to make new product and services launches successful; and source and receive quality raw materials or parts from our suppliers. If we fail to accurately predict the needs and preferences of customers and their patients, or fail to offer viable products or services, we may invest heavily in research and development that does not lead to significant revenues. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product improvements, we may incur substantial costs doing so and our profitability may suffer. Introduction and acceptance of any products and services may take significant time and effort, particularly if they require doctor education and training to understand their benefits or doctors choose to withhold judgment on a product until patients complete their treatments. 23 In addition, we periodically introduce new business and sales initiatives to meet customers needs and demands. In general, our internal resources support these initiatives without clear indications they will prove successful or be without short-term execution challenges. Should these initiatives fail, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted. We may invest in or acquire other businesses, products, technologies, or other assets which may require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our results of operations. Periodically, we have and may in the future acquire, or make investments in, companies, technologies, or other assets. Alternatively, we may be unable to find suitable investment or acquisition opportunities or be unable to complete investments or acquisitions on favorable terms. If we make investments or complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve desired synergies, and investments or acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, securities analysts and investors. Opposition to acquisitions may lead to negative ratings by analysts or investors, give rise to stockholder objections or result in stockholder activism, any of which could disrupt our operations or harm our stock price. Moreover, to the extent we make strategic investments, the companies in which we invest may fail or we may ultimately own less than a majority of the outstanding shares of the company and be unable to control or have significant influence over critical issues that could harm the value of our investment. As an organization we do not have a history of significant acquisitions or integrating their operations and cultures with our own. As such, we are subject to various risks when making a strategic investment or acquisition which could materially impact our business or results of operations, including that we may: fail to perform proper due diligence and inherit unexpected material issues or assets, including intellectual property (IP) or other litigation or ongoing investigations, accounting irregularities or compliance liabilities; fail to comply with regulations, governmental orders or decrees; experience IT security and privacy compliance issues; invest in companies that generate net losses or are slow or fail to develop; not realize a positive return on investment or determine that our investments have declined in value, necessitating we record impairments such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill; have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition or the value of our common stock. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any acquisition could result in dilution to our stockholders. The occurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that impede our ability to manage our operations; find it difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial reporting, forecasting and budgeting, accounting, billing, IT and other systems due to inconsistencies in standards, internal controls, procedures and policies; require significant time and resources to effectuate the integration; fail to retain key personnel or harm our existing culture or the culture of an acquired entity; not realize material portions of the expected synergies and benefits of the investment or acquisition; or unsuccessfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or acquired companys know-how or fail to successfully integrate the technologies acquired. Operational Risks Our operating results have and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which makes predicting the timing and amount of customer demand, our revenues, costs and expenditures difficult. Our quarterly and annual operating results have and will continue to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Some of the factors that have historically, and could in the future, cause our operating results to fluctuate include: changes in consumer and doctor demand; higher manufacturing, delivery and inventory costs; the creditworthiness, liquidity and solvency of our customers and their ability to timely make payments when due; changes in the timing of revenue recognition and our average selling prices; seasonal fluctuations; improvements to or changes in our products, capabilities or technologies that replace or shorten the life cycles of legacy products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing legacy products until new products become available; longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; costs and expenditures, including in connection with new treatment planning and fabrication facilities, the hiring and deployment of personnel and litigation; the timing of clear aligner treatment order submission, acceptance, processing and fulfillment, which can cause fluctuations in our backlog; and timing and fluctuation of spending around marketing and brand awareness campaigns and industry trade shows. 24 If we underestimate product demand, it may exceed our manufacturing capacity or that of one or more of our suppliers, we may be understaffed and we may not have sufficient materials for production. Specifically, our manufacturing process relies on sophisticated computer software and requires new technicians to undergo a long training process, often 120 days or longer. As a result, if we fail to accurately predict demand, we may have an insufficient number of trained technicians to timely manufacture and deliver products to meet customers expectations, which could damage our relationships with our existing customers or harm our ability to attract new customers. Specifically, production levels for our iTero scanners are generally set based on forecasts and historic product demand and we often place orders with suppliers for materials, components and sub-assemblies (materials and components) as well as finished products weeks or more in advance of projected customer orders. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may have excessive staffing, materials, components and finished products, or capacity. If we hire and train too many technicians in anticipation of demand that does not materialize or materializes slower than anticipated, our costs and expenditures may outpace our revenues or revenue growth, harming our gross margin and financial results. Additionally, to secure supplies for production of products, we periodically enter into non-cancelable minimum purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust inventory for declining demand. If product demand decreases or increases more than forecast, we may be required to purchase or lease additional or larger facilities and additional equipment, or we may be unable to timely fulfill customer demand. Responding to unanticipated changes in demand may take time, lower our gross margin, inhibit sales or harm our reputation. We may make business decisions that adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policies and payment terms, promotions, development efforts, product releases, business structure or operations. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations for future revenues. As a result, if our net revenues for a particular period are below expectations, we may be unable to timely or effectively reduce spending to offset any net revenues shortfall. We are subject to operating risks, including excess or constrained capacity and operational inefficiencies, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to operating risks, including excess or constrained capacity and pressure on our internal systems, personnel and suppliers. To manage current and anticipated future operations effectively, we must continually implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, hire, train, motivate, manage and retain employees, and ensure our suppliers remain diverse and capable of meeting demand for the systems, raw materials, parts and components essential to product manufacturing and delivery. We may fail to balance near-term efforts to meet existing demand with future demand, including adding personnel, creating scalable, secure and robust systems and operations, and automating processes for long term efficiencies. Production of our Invisalign system and iTero scanners could also be limited by capacity constraints due to a variety of factors, including labor shortages, shipping delays, our dependency on third-party vendors for key materials, parts, components and equipment, and limited production yields. Any such failure could materially impact our business, operations and prospects. Additionally, we have established treatment planning and manufacturing facilities closer to our international customers to provide better experiences, create efficiencies, and provide redundancy should other facilities become unavailable. If a facility is temporarily, partially or fully shut down, we may be unable to timely fulfill orders, which may negatively impact our financial results, reputation and overall business. Our products and IT systems are critical to our business. Issues with product development or enhancements, IT system and software integration, implementation, updates and upgrades have previously and could again in the future disrupt our operations and have a material impact on our business, our reputation and operating results. We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of our complex IT systems and are dependent on key third party software embedded in our products and IT systems as well as third-party hosted IT systems to support our operations. All software and IT systems are vulnerable to damage, cybersecurity attacks or interruption from a variety of sources. To effectively manage and improve our operations, our IT systems and applications require an ongoing commitment of significant expenditures and resources to maintain, protect, upgrade, enhance and restore existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats, and changing customer preferences. Usage of online and hosted technology platforms by us, our customers and suppliers, including remote working, teledentistry and new or expanded use of online service platforms, products and solutions such as doctor, consumer and patient apps have increased the demands on and risks to our IT systems and personnel. Moreover, we continue to transform certain business processes, extend established processes to new subsidiaries and/or implement additional functionality in our enterprise resource planning, product development, manufacturing, and other software and IT systems which entails certain risks, including disruption of our operations, such as our ability to develop and update products that are safe and secure, track orders and timely ship products, manage our supply chain and aggregate financial and operational data. Failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our products and our IT systems and those of our suppliers and customers may materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 25 We have a complex, global iTero scanner installed base of older and newer models. These models are continually updated to add, expand or improve features with new hardware, or to provide repair or replacement parts. We have experienced hardware issues in the past and may in the future, including issues relating to manufacturing, design, quality, or safety, of which we become aware only after products or changes have been introduced into the market. We also have not been and may continue to be unable to ensure that third party components or changes to them will be compatible with, or will not have a negative impact on the functionality of, our iTero scanners. As a result, there have been and may be widespread failures of our iTero scanners or we may experience epidemic failures of our iTero scanners to perform as anticipated. Previously, we have not been and in the future may not be prepared for, or have the infrastructure to, timely and adequately remediate or implement corrective measures for such failures, including due to our dependency on third party providers or suppliers. Consequently, any remediation may be time-consuming and difficult to achieve, which may materially impact our customers and business partners, damage our reputation and result in lost business and revenue opportunities, and could be materially costly. A significant portion of our clear aligner production is dependent on digital scans from our globally dispersed and decentralized installed base of iTero and third-party intraoral scanners. Failures of all or any portion of our or third-party software or other components or systems to interoperate with iTero or third-party scanners, termination of interoperability with third-party scanners, malware or ransomware attacks, product or system vulnerabilities or defects, interference or disruptions for us, our customers, labs or other business partners in the use of our products or the transmission or processing of data needed for the use or ordering of our products, or a system outage for any reason have harmed our operations previously and in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to accept scans, manufacture clear aligners or restorative procedures or treatments and services or otherwise service our customers. Any of these events harm our sales, damage our reputation, adversely impact our strategic partners or result in litigation. Additionally, we continuously upgrade and issue new releases of software applications upon which customer facing manufacturing and treatment planning operations depend. Software applications and products containing software frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or released. Additionally, the third-party software integrated into or interoperable with our products and services will routinely reach end of life, and as a consequence, certain applications and models of our iTero scanners may be exposed to additional vulnerabilities, including increased security risks, errors and malfunctions that may be irreparable or difficult to repair. The discovery of a defect, error or security vulnerability in our products, software applications or IT systems, incompatibility with customers computer operating systems and hardware configurations with a new release or upgraded version or the failure of our products or primary IT systems may cause adverse consequences, including delay or loss of revenues, significant remediation costs, delay in market acceptance, loss of data, disclosure of financial, health or other personal information of our customers or their patients, product recalls, damage to our reputation, loss of market share or increased service costs, any of which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of our operations and the operations of our customers or our business partners. We are highly dependent on third-party suppliers, some of whom are sole source suppliers, for certain key machines, components and materials, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends, or if the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases. We are highly dependent on our supply chain, particularly manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our iTero scanners. We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials. By using single suppliers in limited locations for materials and manufacturing, we are exposed to multiple supply chain vulnerabilities. Because of our dependence on our suppliers, changes in key relationships can materially disrupt our supply chain. For instance, we may be unable to quickly establish or qualify replacement suppliers creating production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. Finding substitute manufacturers may be expensive, time-consuming or impossible and could result in significant interruptions in the supply of one or more products, product retesting or additional product registration causing us to lose revenues and damage customer relationships. Technology changes by our service providers, vendors, and other third parties could disrupt access to required manufacturing capacity or require expensive, time-consuming development efforts to adapt and integrate new equipment or processes. In the event of technology changes, delivery delays, labor stoppages or shortages, or shortages of, or increases in price for these items, sales may decrease and our business and prospects may be harmed. We use distributors for a portion of the importation, marketing and sales of our products and services, which exposes us to risks to our sales, operations and reputation, including the risk that these distributors do not comply with applicable laws or our internal procedures. In addition to our direct sales force, we have and expect to continue to use distributors to import, market, sell, service and support our products. Our distribution agreements are generally non-exclusive and terminable by either party with customary notice. If alternative distributors cannot be quickly found and trained in the use, marketing, sales and support of our products and services, our revenues and ability to sell or service our products in key markets could be adversely affected. These distributors may also choose to sell alternative or competing products or services. In addition, we may be held responsible for the actions of these distributors and their employees and agents for compliance with laws and regulations, including fair 26 competition, bribery and corruption, trade compliance, safety, data privacy and marketing and sales activities. The conduct of these distributors also impacts our reputation and our brand. If our distributors fail to satisfy customers, our reputation and brand loyalty could be harmed. A distributor may also affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if it holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance or prevents us from taking control of any such authorization. It may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance. A disruption in the operations of a primary freight carrier, higher shipping costs or shipping delays could disrupt our supply chain and impact our operating and financial results. We are dependent on commercial freight carriers, primarily UPS, to deliver our products. If the operations of carriers are disrupted or we fail to mitigate any disruptions, we may be unable to timely deliver products to our customers who may choose alternative products, causing our net revenues and gross margin to decline, possibly materially. Moreover, when fuel costs increase, our freight costs generally do so as well. In addition, we earn an increasingly larger portion of our total revenues from international sales, which carry higher shipping costs that negatively impact our gross margin and results of operations. If freight costs materially increase and we are unable to successfully pass all or significant portions of the increases along to our customers, or we cannot otherwise offset such increases, our gross margin and financial results could be materially affected. Our success depends on our personnel. If we cannot attract, motivate, train or retain personnel, it may be difficult to achieve our strategic priorities, materially effecting our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the talent and efforts of our personnel. We strive to retain our personnel by providing competitive compensation and benefits, development opportunities and training, flexible work options, and an inclusive corporate culture. However, competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense, particularly technical and digital talent, and our competitors have and are likely to continue to recruit our personnel. Our compensation and benefit arrangements may not successfully attract new employees, retain or motivate existing employees. In addition, other internal and external factors can impact our ability to hire and retain talent, including insufficient advancement or career opportunities and restrictive immigration policies. The loss of any key personnel, particularly executive management, research and development personnel or sales personnel, could harm our business and prospects and impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. We provide significant training to our personnel and our business will be harmed if our training fails to properly prepare them to perform the work required, we are unable to successfully instill technical expertise in new and existing personnel or if our techniques prove unsuccessful or are not cost-effective. Moreover, for certain roles, this training and experience can make key personnel, such as our sales personnel, highly desirable to competitors and lead to increased attrition. It can take up to twelve months or more to train sales representatives to successfully market and sell our products and for them to establish strong customer relationships. The loss of the services and knowledge of our highly-skilled employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and business objectives. Additionally, seamless leadership transitions for key positions is critical to sustaining our culture and organizational success. If our succession planning is ineffective, it could adversely impact our business. We continue to assess key personnel we believe essential to our long-term success. Moreover, future organizational changes may cause employee attrition rates to increase. If we fail to effectively manage any organizational or strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, may be harmed. We have adopted a hybrid work schedule in many of our offices, allowing employees to collaborate and connect with others several days each week while providing the option to work remotely other days. This hybrid work approach may create challenges with maintaining our corporate culture, employee satisfaction and hiring, promotion, and retention. We believe a key to our success has been the culture we have created that emphasizes a shared vision and values focusing on agility, customer success and accountability. We have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, difficulties attracting and retaining employees that meet the qualifications, experience, compliance mindset and values we expect. If we cannot attract and retain personnel that meet our selection criteria or relax our standards, our corporate culture, ability to achieve our strategic objectives, and our compliance with obligations under our internal controls and other requirements may be harmed. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to maintain market share. We have employees represented by works councils in certain countries and others that may be or may become eligible to be represented by works councils, trade unions and other employee associations. Labor disputes and work stoppages involving our employees may disrupt our operations and could materially impact our results or operations. We depend on our marketing activities to deepen our market penetration and raise awareness of our brands and products, which may prove unsuccessful or may become less effective or more costly to maintain in the long term. 27 Our marketing efforts and costs are significant and include national and regional campaigns in multiple countries involving television, print and social media and alliances with professional sports teams, social media influencers and other strategic partners. There is no assurance our advertising campaigns will achieve the returns on advertising spend desired, increase brand or product awareness sufficiently or generate goodwill and positive reputational goals. Moreover, should any entity or individual endorsing us or our products take actions, make or publish statements in support of, or lend support to events or causes which are perceived by a portion of society negatively, our sponsorships or support of these entities or individuals may be questioned, our products boycotted, and our reputation harmed, any of which could materially effect our financial results and business overall. In addition, various countries prohibit certain types of marketing activities. For example, some countries restrict direct to consumer advertising of medical devices. We have in the past and may again in the future be alleged to violate marketing restrictions and be ordered to stop certain marketing activities or prevented from selling our products. Moreover, competitors do not always follow these restrictions, creating an unfair advantage and making it more difficult and costly to compete. Additionally, we rely heavily on data generated from our campaigns to target specific audiences and evaluate their effectiveness, particularly data generated from internet activities on mobile devices. To obtain this data, we are dependent on third parties and popular mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products, and standards we do not control, such as the Android and iOS operating systems, and mobile browsers. Changes in such systems that degrade or eliminate our ability to target or measure the results of ads or increase costs to target audiences could adversely affect our campaigns. Operating systems could also include data privacy settings that limit our ability to interpret, target and measure ads effectively. We have been incorporating and continue to work to further incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) into our products, services and internal operations. Implementation of AI and machine learning technologies may result in legal and regulatory risks, reputational harm or have other adverse consequences to our business. We have and are continuing to incorporate AI, including machine learning and independent algorithms, in certain of our products, services and internal operations, which is intended to enhance their operation and effectiveness internally and for our customers, suppliers and consumers. AI innovation presents risks and challenges that could impact our business. Our, or vendors, AI algorithms may be flawed. Our datasets or AI training algorithms may be insufficient or contain biased information. Additionally, many countries and regions, including the EU, have proposed new and evolving regulations related to the use of AI and machine learning technologies. The regulations may impose onerous obligations and may require us to unexpectedly rework or reevaluate improvements to be compliant. Use of AI technologies may expose us to an increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation. Moreover, some of the AI features involve the processing of personal data and may be subject to laws, policies, legal obligations, and codes of conduct related to privacy and data protection. AI development and deployment practices could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory enforcement, increased cybersecurity risks, reputational harm and legal liability. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks We are subject to antitrust and competition regulations, litigation and enforcement that may result in fines, penalties, restrictions on our business practices, and product or operational changes which could materially impact our business. We currently are and may in the future be subject to antitrust, competition or unfair competition related investigations, enforcement actions or claims by governmental agencies, competitors, consumers, customers, and others which, even if unfounded, could cause us to incur substantial costs, enter into settlements, consents, be subject to judgments, involve negative publicity, and divert management time and attention, which may materially impact our results of operations. Resolving these matters may require us to change our business practices in materially adverse ways. Governments and regulators are actively developing new competition laws and regulations aimed at the technology sector, AI and digital platforms and coordinating activities globally, including in large markets such as the EU, U.S., and China. Government regulatory actions and court decisions may result in fines or hinder our ability to provide certain benefits to our consumers, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue derived from them. These actions and decisions may also hinder our ability to pursue certain mergers, acquisitions, business combinations or other transactions. We are currently subject to two antitrust actions with jury trials scheduled to begin on May 13, 2024, and January 21, 2025. We believe the plaintiffs claims are without merit in each of these actions, but we will likely incur costs in connection with these trials and with our defense, and there is a risk that we will be subject to adverse judgments or negative publicity. Failure to obtain or maintain approvals or comply with regulations regarding our products or services or those of our suppliers could materially harm our sales, result in substantial penalties and fines and cause harm to our reputation. We and many of our healthcare provider customers, suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulations under numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, including those regulating: the storage, transmission and disclosure of personal, financial, and medical information as well as healthcare records; 28 prohibitions against the offer, payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals to entities providing healthcare services or goods or to induce the order, purchase or recommendation of our products; and the design, manufacture, marketing and advertising of our products. The healthcare and technology markets are also highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Global regulators are expanding and changing regulations and guidance for products, which can limit the potential benefits of products and cause protracted review timelines for new products. Our critical third-party vendors and service providers are similarly subject to various regulations. Our failure or the failure of our suppliers, customers, advertisers and influencers to strictly adhere to clearances or approvals in the labeling, marketing and sales of our products and services could subject us to claims or litigation, including allegations of false or misleading advertising or violations of laws or regulations, which may result in costly investigations, fines, penalties, as well as material judgments, settlements or decrees. We are also subject to complex, new and changing environmental, health and safety regulations. There can be no assurance we will adequately address the business risks associated with the implementation and compliance with such laws and our internal processes and procedures to comply with such laws or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Furthermore, before we can sell a new medical device or market a new use of, or claim for, an existing product, we frequently must obtain clearance or approval to do so. For instance, in the U.S., FDA regulations are wide ranging and govern, among other things, product design, product materials, development, manufacturing and testing, product labeling and product storage. It takes significant time, effort and expense to obtain and maintain clearances and approvals of products and services, and there is no guarantee we will timely succeed, if at all, in the countries in which we do business. In other countries, the requirements, time, effort and expense to obtain and maintain clearances may differ materially from those of the FDA. Moreover, these laws may change, resulting in additional time, expense or loss of market access. If requirements to market our products or services are delayed, we may be unable to offer them in markets we deem important. Additionally, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement actions with sanctions including, among other things, fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Delays or failures to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, clearances or to comply with regulatory requirements may materially harm our domestic or international operations, and adversely impact our business. We and certain of our third-party vendors must also comply with and adhere to facility registration and product listing requirements for Quality System regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. Failure to satisfactorily correct an adverse inspection finding or to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations can result in enforcement actions, or we may be required to find alternative manufacturers, which could be a long and costly process and may cause reputational harm. Enforcement actions by regulators could have a material effect on our business. We are also subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery (ABAC) laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business, securing an advantage and directing business to another. To comply with ABAC laws, regulators require that we maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. Under the FCPA, we may be held liable for corruption by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. In addition, while we have policies requiring compliance with applicable laws and regulations and we provide significant training to foster compliance, our employees, third parties acting on our behalf and customers may not properly adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations, including the use of certain electronic communications and maintaining accurate books and records. If our personnel or the personnel of our agents or suppliers fail to comply with any laws, regulations, policies or procedures, or we fail to audit and enforce compliance, our reputation may be harmed, we may lose customers, revenues, or face regulatory investigations, actions and fines. Security breaches, data breaches, cybersecurity attacks, other cybersecurity incidents or the failure to comply with privacy, security and data protection laws could materially impact our operations, patient care could suffer, we could be liable for damages, and our business, operations and reputation could be harmed. We retain confidential customer personal and financial, patient health and our own proprietary information and data essential to our business operations. We rely on the effectiveness of our IT systems, our policies and contracts and policies of our third-party vendors and the IT systems of our service providers and other third parties to safeguard the information and data. Additionally, our success depends on our healthcare providers, many of whom are individual or small operations with limited IT experience and inadequate or untested security protocols, to successfully manage data privacy and security requirements. It is critical that the facilities, infrastructure and IT systems on which we depend and the products we develop remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace and our customers as secure. Despite the implementation of security features in our products and security measures in our IT systems, we and our service providers, third-party vendors, and other third parties are targeted by or subject to physical break-ins, computer viruses and other malicious code, unauthorized or fraudulent access, programming errors or other technical malfunctions, hacking or phishing attacks, malware, ransomware, employee error or malfeasance, cybersecurity attacks, and other breaches of IT systems or similar disruptive actions, including 29 by organized groups and nation-state actors. For example, we have experienced, and may again experience in the future, cybersecurity incidents and unauthorized internal employee exfiltration of company information. Further, the frequency and sophistication of third-party cybersecurity attacks is increasing. Significant service disruptions, breaches in our infrastructure and IT systems or other cybersecurity incidents could expose us to litigation or regulatory investigations, impair our reputation and competitive position, be distracting to management, and require significant time and resources to address. Legal or regulatory action against us could prevent us from resolving issues quickly or force us to resolve them in unanticipated ways, cause us to incur significant expense and damages, or result in orders forcing us to cease operations or modify our business practices in ways that materially limit or restrict the capabilities of our products and services. Concerns over our privacy practices could adversely affect others perception of us and deter customers and patients from using our products. In addition, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable if our products or IT systems fail to timely deliver accurate and complete information. We have cybersecurity and other forms of insurance coverage related to a cyber attacks, breaches, and other incidents or security problems. However, damages and claims arising from specific incidents may not be covered, may exceed the amount of any coverage, and do not cover the time and effort we incur investigating and responding to any incidents, which may be material. The costs to eliminate, mitigate or recover from security problems and cybersecurity attacks and incidents could be material and, depending on the nature and extent of the problem and the networks or products impacted, may result in network or systems interruptions, decreased product sales, or data loss that may have a material impact on our operations, net revenues and operating results. Additionally, our iTero scanners sold to customers globally, strategic business partners or other locations may be independently or collectively the target of cybersecurity incidents or attacks or subject to viruses, bugs, or other similar negative intruders. Due to the large and growing number of these decentralized devices, we may be unable, or not have the capacity, knowledge, or infrastructure, to respond to or remedy a cybersecurity issue in a timely manner, which may cause loss or damage to us, our customers, or strategic business partners or may cause further malfunctions in, or damage to, our servers, databases, systems or products and services, loss or damage of our data, interruption or temporary cessation of our operations, or an overall negative impact to our business or reputation. We are also subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations respecting the security and privacy of patient healthcare information applicable to healthcare providers and their business associates, such as HIPAA, as well as those relating to privacy, data security, content regulation, and consumer protection. We are subject to various national and regional data localization or data residency laws, including U.S. state law, the EU General Data Protection Regulation and analogous laws in China which generally require certain types of data collected within a country be stored and processed only within that country or approved countries. Other countries are considering similar data localization or data residency laws. We have and likely will again in the future be required to implement new or expand existing data storage protocols, build new storage facilities, and/or devote additional resources to comply with such laws, any of which could be costly. We are also subject to data export restrictions and international transfer laws which prohibit or impose conditions upon the transfer of such data. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be created, interpreted, applied, or amended in ways that adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability for the quality and safety of our products and services, how we advertise and market those products and services and how and to whom we sell them, and we may incur substantial expenses or be found liable for substantial damages or penalties if we are subject to claims or litigation. Our products and services involve an inherent risk of claims concerning their design, materials, manufacture, safety and performance, how they are marketed and advertised in a complex framework of highly regulated domestic and international laws and regulations, how we package, bundle or sell them to individual customers or companies, including hospitals and clinics, and how we train and support doctors, their staffs and patients who use our products. Moreover, consumer products and services are routinely subject to claims of false, deceptive or misleading advertising, consumer fraud and unfair business practices. Additionally, we may be held liable if our products or services cause injury or are otherwise found unhealthy. If our products are safe but they are promoted for use or used in unintended or unexpected ways or for which we have not obtained clearance (off-label usage), we may be investigated, fined or have our products or services enjoined or approvals rescinded or we may be required to defend ourselves in litigation. Although we maintain insurance for product liability, business practices and other types of activities we make or offer, coverage may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and may be insufficient for actual liabilities. Any claim for product liability, sales, advertising and business practices, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in material legal defense costs and damage our reputation, increase our expenses and divert managements attention. Increased focus on current and anticipated environmental, social and governance (ESG) laws and scrutiny of our ESG policies and practices may materially increase our costs, expose us to liability, adversely impact our reputation, employee retention, willingness of customers and suppliers to do business with us and willingness of investors to invest in us. Our operations are subject to a variety of existing local, regional and global ESG laws and regulations, and we are and may be required to comply with new, broader, more complex and more costly ESG laws and regulations. Our compliance obligations span all aspects of our business and operations, including product design and development, materials sourcing and 30 other procurement activities, product packaging, product safety, energy and natural resources usage, facilities design and utilization, recycling and collection, transportation, disposal activities and workers rights. Environmental regulations related to greenhouse gases, hazardous materials, sustainability and reduction of waste are expected to have an increasingly larger impact on us or our suppliers. Many U.S. and foreign regulators have or are considering enacting new or additional disclosure requirements or limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, from power generated using fossil fuels. The effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on power generation are subject to significant uncertainties, including the timing of new requirements, levels of emissions reductions and the scope and types of emissions regulated. Additionally, laws on sustainability and waste reduction are increasing and consumers may demand our products, packaging and operations be more sustainable, affect how we manufacture and package our products, increase our costs and those of our suppliers, and which may result in manufacturing, transportation and supply chain disruptions if clean energy or sustainable alternatives are not readily available in adequate amounts when required. Moreover, alternative clean energy sources, coupled with reduced investments in traditional energy production and infrastructure, may not provide the predictable, reliable, and consistent energy that we, our suppliers and other businesses require. Additionally, the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of, or contained in, our products may be affected by laws and regulations governing the use of minerals obtained from certain regions of the world like the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Although we do not believe we source minerals from this region, our expanding geographic operations may increase the risk of purchasing conflict minerals and our efforts to identify whether any of our products contain minerals impacted by these laws and regulations may not be adequate or complete. Other restrictions apply to the substances incorporated into our products, including the chemical compounds in our clear aligners, the electronics in our iTero scanners, and the packaging in which they are shipped. These laws are proliferating and new substances subject to restrictions are regularly being added each year. We may be forced to re-design our products or identify new suppliers to maintain our compliance with these laws. Further, these laws and regulations may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs, thereby negatively affecting our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, leading customers to potentially choose competitive goods and services. Meeting our obligations under existing ESG laws and regulations is costly for us and our suppliers, and we expect these regulations and costs to increase materially. Additionally, regulators may perform investigations, inspections and periodically audit our compliance with these laws and regulations, and we cannot be sure our efforts or operations will be compliant. If we fail to comply with any requirements, we could be subject to significant penalties or liabilities and we may be required to implement new and materially more costly processes and procedures. Even if we successfully comply with these laws and regulations, our suppliers may not. We may also suffer financial and reputational harm if customers require, and we are unable to deliver, certification that our products are complaint. In all of these situations, customers may stop purchasing products from us, and may take legal action against us, which could harm our reputation, revenues and results of operations. Investor advocacy groups, institutional investors, investment funds, proxy advisory services, stockholders, and customers are also increasingly focused on corporate ESG practices. Additionally, public interest and legislative pressure related to companies ESG practices continues to grow. If our ESG practices fail to meet investor or other industry stakeholders frequently evolving expectations and standards, our brand, reputation and employee retention may be harmed, customers and suppliers may be unwilling to do business with us and investors may be unwilling to invest in us. If we fail to adopt ESG standards or practices as quickly as stakeholders desire, comply with or timely report on our ESG efforts or practices accurately, or satisfy the disclosure and other expectations of stakeholders, our reputation, business, financial performance, growth, and stock price may be adversely impacted. Intellectual Property Risks Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, and if we fail to successfully obtain or enforce our IP rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain existing IP rights and obtain, maintain and enforce further IP protections for our products. Our inability to do so could harm our competitive position. We rely on our portfolio of issued and pending patent applications in the U.S. and other countries to protect a large part of our IP and our competitive position; however, these patents may not prevent third parties from producing competing products similar in design to ours if they are invalidated, held unenforceable, circumvented, or otherwise limited in scope. Furthermore, our foreign patent protections may be more limited in geographic scope than those under U.S. patent and IP laws. Additionally, any of our patent applications may not result in an issued patent or the scope of the patent ultimately issued may be narrower than initially sought. We may not be afforded the protection of a patent if our currently pending or future patent filings do not result in the issuance of patents or we fail to timely apply for patent protection. We may not apply for a patent if our personnel fail to disclose or recognize new patentable ideas or innovations. Remote working can decrease opportunities for our personnel to collaborate, thereby reducing invention disclosures and patent application filings. We may 31 choose not to file a foreign patent application if the limited protections provided by a foreign patent do not outweigh the costs to obtain it. Further, third parties may file patents or develop IP strategies that prevent or limit the effectiveness of our patents. We also protect our IP through copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and confidentiality obligations. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with us. However, despite the existence of these protections, we have experienced incidents in which our proprietary information has been misappropriated and believe it will be misappropriated again in the future. If these agreements do not provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information, adequate remedies may not exist to prevent unauthorized uses or disclosures. Enforcement of our IP rights is time-consuming and costly, and could ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. In certain jurisdictions, enforcement of IP rights is more difficult due to legislation and geopolitical circumstances. As we launch our products in different regions at different times, our products may be acquired and reverse engineered by potential competitors in regions where infringement is more difficult to pursue. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through patents, copyrights or trade secrets would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. In particular, a failure to protect our IP rights might allow competitors to copy our technology or create counterfeit or pirated versions of our products, which could adversely affect our reputation, pricing and market share. Litigation regarding our IP rights, rights claimed by third parties, or IP litigation by any vendors on whose products or services we rely for our products and services may impact our ability to grow our business, adversely impact our results of operations and adversely impact our reputation. Extensive litigation over IP rights is common in technologies and industries on which our products and services are based. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, re-exams, inter partes reviews, post grant reviews or other proceedings have been necessary and will likely be needed in the future to determine the validity and scope of certain of our IP rights and those claimed by third parties. These proceedings are used to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products and the products of competitors. We have been sued for infringement of third parties patents in the past and are currently defending patent infringement lawsuits and other legal claims. In addition, we periodically receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their IP rights and there may be other third-party IP rights of which we are presently unaware. As dentistry continues to become more digital, competitors may make defense of our IP more challenging. Asserting or defending these proceedings can be unpredictable, protracted, time-consuming, expensive and distracting to management and technical personnel. Their outcomes may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products, require us to seek licenses for infringing products or technologies or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages. Unfavorable rulings could include monetary damages, injunctions prohibiting us from selling our products, or exclusion orders preventing us from importing our products in one or more countries. Moreover, independent actions by competitors, customers or others have alleged that our efforts to enforce our IP rights constitute unfair competition or violations of antitrust laws and investigations and additional litigation based on the same or similar claims may be brought in the future. The potential effects on our business operations resulting from litigation, whether or not ultimately determined in our favor or settled by us, are costly and could materially affect our results of operations and reputation. Financial, Tax and Accounting Risks If our goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a material charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our goodwill at least annually, or more frequently, if we identify events or circumstances that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit has been reduced below its carrying value. We review finite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. The qualitative analysis performed by management to identify indicators of impairment or the quantitative analysis used to determine fair value requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining appropriate assumptions and estimates, including revenue growth rates, gross and operating margins, discount rates and future cash flows. Management is responsible for continually assessing qualitative factors that could negatively impact the fair value of goodwill and intangible and long-lived assets and if required, assesses the fair value of each to determine if they have become impaired. Consequently, we may be required to record a material charge to earnings our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of goodwill, intangible or long-lived asset group is determined. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or in the way these policies are interpreted by us or regulators could materially effect our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported financial statements. 32 We are required to annually assess our internal control over financial reporting and any adverse results from such assessment may result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and adversely affect our stock price. We are required to furnish in our Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether it is effective. Our internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in personnel, updates and upgrades to or migration away from existing software, failure to maintain accurate books and records, changes in accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the existing policies or procedures may become ineffective. Establishing, testing and maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting requires significant resources and time commitments on the part of our management and our finance staff, may require additional staffing and infrastructure investments and increases our costs of doing business. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or conclude that our internal controls are ineffective), the timely filing of our financial reports could be delayed or we could be required to restate past reports, and cause us to lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risks successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. A majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of an investment exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we are required to write down the value of the investment, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of the U.S. financial sector. In an unstable credit or economic environment, it is necessary to assess the value of our investments more frequently and we might incur material realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Additionally, bank failures could cause or continue to cause volatility in the credit or capital markets, market-wide liquidity issues, bank-runs and general concern across the global financial industry. These conditions could limit our access to capital or impair the value of assets we hold. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign countries. Various internal and external factors may affect our future effective tax rate. These factors include changes in the global economic environment, our legal entity structure or activities performed within our entities, our business operations, in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, to existing accounting pronouncements, interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, in relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates, in overall levels of pretax earnings, as well as the settlement of income tax audits and non-deductible goodwill impairments. Furthermore, we may continue to experience variation in our effective tax rate related to excess tax benefits or tax expense on stock-based compensation, particularly in the first quarter of each year when the majority of our equity awards vest. New tax laws and practices, changes to existing tax laws and practices, or disputes regarding the positions we take regarding tax laws, could negatively affect our provision for income taxes as well as our ongoing operations. Compliance with tax laws requires significant judgment concerning our worldwide provision for income taxes. Changes in tax laws or changes to how those laws are applied to our business could affect the amount of tax which we are subject to and the manner in which we operate. Specifically, in 2016, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) established the Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) to among other things, allocate greater taxing rights to countries where customers are located and establish a global minimum tax rate. After years of evaluating their respective tax laws, many countries have enacted changes, or are committed to enacting changes, which may increase our tax expense in future years. For example, the European Union and other countries have enacted or have committed to enact the OECD/G20 Frameworks Pillar Two 15% global minimum tax. If more countries adopt these changes based on the BEPS guidance, our provision for income taxes or operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, the application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax (SUT), value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax (GST), and other indirect taxes) to our operations is complex and evolving. U.S. states, local and foreign taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing differing types of taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations and exemptions that may change over time. We collect and remit SUT, VAT, GST and other taxes in many jurisdictions and we are routinely subject to audits. We are also routinely audited regarding our tax reporting and remissions by local and national governments, and may also be subject to audits in jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. The positions we take regarding taxes as well as the amounts we collect or remit may be challenged and we may be liable for failing to collect or remit all taxes deemed owed or the taxes could exceed our estimates. One or more U.S. states or countries may seek to impose incremental or new sales, use, or other tax collection obligations or may determine that such 33 taxes should have but have not been paid by us. If we dispute rulings or positions taken by tax authorities, we may incur significant expenses, time and effort to defend our positions. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company received a notice and initial assessment from His Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) for unpaid VAT related to certain clear aligner sales made during various periods beginning 2019 through 2023. While we assert that these sales are exempt from VAT, that we have reasonably relied upon statements and guidance by HMRC and that our interpretation of relevant legislation is appropriate, and believe that a potential loss related to unpaid VAT is not probable, it is possible that we may be subject to a loss in connection with unpaid VAT. The application of existing and new tax laws, and the results of audits could harm our business. Furthermore, there have been and will continue to be substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various tax requirements and defending our positions in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. Historically, the market price for our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to rapid and large price fluctuations attributable to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors include: quarterly variations in our results of operations and liquidity or changes in our forecasts and guidance; our ability to regain or sustain our historical growth rates; changes in recommendations by the investment community or speculation in the press or investment community regarding estimates of our net revenues, operating results or other performance indicators; announcements by us or our competitors or new market entrants, including strategic actions, management changes, and material transactions or acquisitions; technical factors in the public trading markets for our stock that may produce price movements inconsistent with macro, industry or company-specific fundamentals, including the sentiment of retail investors (as it may be expressed on financial trading and other social media sites), the amount and status of short interest in our securities, access to margin debt, trading in options and other derivatives on our common stock, fractional share trading, and other technical trading factors or strategies; announcements regarding stock repurchases, sales or purchases of our common stock by us, our officers or directors, credit agreements and debt issuances; announcements of technological innovations, new, additional or revised programs, business models, products or product offerings by us, our customers or competitors; key decisions in pending litigation, new litigation, settlements, judgments or decrees; and general economic market conditions, including rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, recessions, consumer sentiment and demand, global political conflict and industry factors unrelated to our actual performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and medical device companies, in particular, often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to corporate operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may include market expectations of, or actual changes in, monetary policies that have the goal of easing or tightening interest rates such as the U.S. federal funds rate and austerity measures of governments intended to control budget deficits. Securities litigation, including securities class action lawsuits and securities derivative lawsuits, is often brought against an issuer following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities and we have not been exempt from such litigation. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to repurchase our common stock in the future, and any repurchases we may make may not achieve our desired objectives. We have a history of recurring stock repurchase programs intended to return capital to our investors. Future stock repurchase programs are contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, market conditions, results of operations, business requirements, and our continuing determination that stock repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all applicable laws and agreements. There is no assurance that we will continue repurchasing our common stock in the future at historical levels or at all, or that our stock repurchase programs will beneficially impact our stock price. Additionally, effective January 1, 2023, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes a 1% excise tax on our stock repurchases, which will increase our tax liabilities and the cost to retire stock and may impact if and how much stock we choose to repurchase in the future. Future sales of significant amounts of our common stock may depress our stock price. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is currently owned by a small number of stockholders. These stockholders have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, large amounts of our stock over relatively short periods of time. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders may adversely affect the market price of our stock by creating the perception of difficulties or problems with our business that may depress our stock price. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. We have implemented a cross-departmental approach to managing cybersecurity risk, which includes seeking input from our employees, management, third-party vendors, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the Audit Committee), and the Board of Directors. We devote significant resources to cybersecurity and risk management processes to adapt to the changing cybersecurity landscape and respond to emerging threats in a timely and effective manner. We regularly assess the threat landscape and take a holistic view of cybersecurity risks, with a layered cybersecurity strategy based on prevention, detection and response. To more effectively address cybersecurity threats, we have a dedicated Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who is responsible for leading enterprise-wide information security strategy, policy, process, and technology. Our current CISO has 20+ years of information security and risk management experience and holds a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification. Our CISO regularly briefs our Audit Committee on our cybersecurity and information security program and cybersecurity incidents deemed to pose a risk of a critical business impact or reputational harm. Our cybersecurity risk management program leverages the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) framework, which organizes cybersecurity risks into five categories: identify, protect, detect, respond and recover. Our information security team, comprised of employees with an expertise in cybersecurity and information technology, regularly assess the threat landscape and take a holistic view of cybersecurity risks, with a layered cybersecurity strategy based on prevention, detection, and response. Our information security program includes, among other things, cybersecurity incident response, vulnerability management, antivirus and malware protection, technology compliance and risk management, encryption, identity and access management, application security, and security monitoring. The program also has an information security awareness program, which includes annual training regarding our acceptable use and information classification and handling policies, regular phishing campaigns complemented by additional employee training as appropriate, and communications and companion trainings to keep our users informed on current events. The information security programs ultimate goal is preventing cybersecurity incidents to the extent feasible, while simultaneously increasing our system resilience to minimize the business impact should an incident occur. In the event of an identified cybersecurity incident, we have developed a detailed cybersecurity incident response process, which outlines the steps to be followed from incident detection, analysis, containment, eradication, recovery, and notification, including notifying functional areas (e.g. information technology, legal, finance, operations, privacy), as well as senior leadership and the Audit Committee, as appropriate. For critical cybersecurity incidents, processes have been established for our legal team to determine the materiality of each incident. Our information security team engages third-party services to conduct evaluations of our security controls, including penetration testing and independent audits. Annually, an external auditor conducts a System and Organization Controls (SOC) type 2 audit covering the security principle for systems supporting our products. Our assessment of risks associated with the use of third-party vendors is part of our overall cybersecurity risk management framework. If a third-party vendor is unable to provide a SOC 1 or SOC 2 report, our information security team takes additional steps to assess their cybersecurity preparedness and our initiation or continued engagement with them. Additionally, third-party vendors are required to include security and privacy addendums to our contracts where applicable and are reassessed periodically as necessary depending on the risk level that has been assigned to the third-party vendor. Our legal team also requires that our third-party vendors report cybersecurity incidents to us so the impact of the incident on us can be assessed. Our Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing cybersecurity risks and our cybersecurity program. It oversees and reviews our cybersecurity and other information technology risks, controls, policies, and procedures. Our information security team annually performs a cybersecurity enterprise risk assessment and presents the results to management and the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee periodically reports on its review of cybersecurity risks and our cybersecurity program to our Board of Directors. In 2023, our CISO or his team met with the Audit Committee four times to discuss cybersecurity risks and threats. We have not identified any risks from known cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any prior cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our operations, business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Notwithstanding the approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not successfully prevent or mitigate cybersecurity incidents that could have a material adverse effect on us. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, the costs related to cybersecurity threats or disruptions may not be covered or, if covered, fully insured. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of cybersecurity risks. 35 Item 2.Properties. We occupy several leased and owned facilities. As of December 31, 2023, the significant facilities occupied were as follows: Location Lease/Own Primary Use Tempe, Arizona, U.S.A. Lease Office for corporate headquarters San Jose, California, U.S.A. Own Office for research & development and administrative personnel Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A. Own Office for Americas regional headquarters Belen, Heredia, Costa Rica Own Office for administrative personnel, treatment personnel, and customer care La Lima, Cartago, Costa Rica Own Office for administrative personnel, treatment personnel, and customer care Wroclaw, Poland Lease and Own Manufacturing and office for treatment and administrative personnel Petah Tikva, Israel Lease and Own Manufacturing and office for research & development and administrative personnel Rotkreuz, Switzerland Lease Office for EMEA regional headquarters Juarez, Mexico Own Manufacturing and office for administrative personnel Ziyang, China Own Manufacturing and office for administrative personnel We believe our existing facilities are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. The facilities noted above are used mostly by all our reportable segments. Item 3.Legal Proceedings. For a discussion of legal proceedings, refer to Note 7 "Legal Proceedings" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 36 PART II Item 5.Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol ALGN. As of February 22, 2024, there were approximately 52 holders of record of our common stock. Because the majority of our shares of outstanding common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the SEC, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or Soliciting Material under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except to the extent we specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or to the extent we specifically incorporate this information by reference. The graph below matches our cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the NASDAQ Composite index, the S&P 500 index and the S&P 1500 Composite Health Care Equipment & Supplies index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2023. 37 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2023: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs(1) October 1, 2023 through October 31, 2023 1,049,538 $ 190.56 1,049,538 $ 750,000,000 November 1, 2023 through November 30, 2023 283,335 $ 206.89 283,335 $ 691,380,496 December 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023 182,183 $ 227.14 182,183 $ 650,000,000 Total 1,515,056 1,515,056 1 January 2023 Repurchase Program. In January 2023, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a plan to repurchase up to $1,000,000,000 of our common stock. See Note 10 Common Stock Repurchase Programs of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the January 2023 Repurchase Program. Item 6.[Reserved] Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 is presented under Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Discussions regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2022 compared to 2021 have been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but can be found in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023, which is available without charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on our investor relations website at investor.aligntech.com. Executive Overview of Results Trends and Uncertainties Our business strategic priorities focus on four principal pillars for growth: (i) international expansion; (ii) GP dentist treatment; (iii) patient demand; and (iv) orthodontic utilization. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to facilitate the digital transformation of dentistry happening around the world, our continuous focus on innovation, and expansion to meet and exceed evolving customer expectations as the array of products and services available to them increases. We strive to deliver on each of our strategic growth drivers through a variety of interrelated enterprise-wide efforts including: Continuing penetration and adoption of Invisalign products, intraoral scanners and CAD/CAM solutions in international markets by investing in manufacturing operations, research and development, clinical treatment planning, sales and marketing and building our quality and regulatory capabilities in existing and emerging markets globally. For instance, in 2022, we opened a new aligner fabrication facility in Wroclaw, Poland as a part of our strategy to bring operational facilities closer to customers to serve them more quickly and respond to their needs more effectively as well as new treatment planning operations in targeted regional geographies. We have also diversified our research and development activities throughout Europe, which has created a longer term, more stable environment for consistent hiring, retention and innovation in a variety of high technology sectors. We are in over 100 markets and have 13 fabrication and treatment locations throughout the world. 38 Targeting growth opportunities with international orthodontists and GP customers, particularly with adopters of digital dentistry platforms by tailoring our sales and marketing strategies, manufacturing operations and resources around the unique needs of each customer channel. As we continue growing, we intend to opportunistically expand our research, development, manufacturing, treatment planning, and sales and marketing operations to meet local and regional demand thoughtfully and deliberately. Over the longer-term, we expect international revenues to grow faster than Americas' revenues as a result of growing international demand, our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunities and our relatively low market penetration in these regions. Building confidence within the GP and orthodontic communities through training and education efforts to increase their adoption and utilization of digital dental practice transformation and clear aligner treatment. We continue to expand our clear aligner customer base by educating new doctors on the benefits of digital dentistry through the Invisalign system. We furthermore demonstrate to GPs and orthodontists how the iTero portfolio of intraoral scanners and CAD/CAM restorative services and workflows can increase revenues and profitability for their dental practices by enhancing patient experiences and creating operational practice efficiencies. Investing in research and development that allows us to innovate, develop and bring to market products and solutions that deliver the ever-increasing clinical precision and predictability that doctors expect with the speed and convenience their patients require. Creating demand and enabling patient conversion through targeted investments in advertising and public relations through social media, influencers and other forms of digital communications to encourage treatment by Invisalign trained doctors. We believe that well-designed, targeted sales and marketing promotions that build on our strong brand awareness allow us to differentiate our products and solutions from traditional and emerging competitors. To increase awareness and educate young adults, parents and teens about the benefits of the Invisalign brand, in 2023 we continued to invest in and create campaigns across markets in media platforms such as TikTok, Instagram, YouTube, SnapChat, WeChat, and Douyin. We expect to make further investments to create additional demand for Invisalign system treatment driving more consumers to dental professionals for those treatments. Pursuing new product lines that complement our doctor-prescribed principal products currently available in certain e-commerce and retail channels in the U.S. Similarly, in 2023, we continued our focus on our doctor subscription plan and grew our underpenetrated share of the retainer business through strategic marketing campaigns focused on driving adoption and increasing market share in the U.S., Canada, Iberia and the Nordics. Increasing global orthodontic utilization rates as doctors clinical confidence in the efficacy and predictability of the Invisalign system increases with advancements in products and technology and as patients and doctors demand treatments that emphasize convenience and safety through fewer visits and less invasive and quicker treatments. In addition, the teenage and younger market makes up about 70% of the approximately 22 million total annual global orthodontic case starts. We continue to emphasize the benefits of the Invisalign system for teenage and younger patient treatments through education, training and sales and marketing programs. In 2023, we had record shipments to teenage and younger patients. We expect utilization rates to continue to rise. However, our utilization rates will fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, which may include seasonal trends in our business, consumer demand due to macroeconomic factors, and adoption rates for new products and features. Macroeconomic Challenges and Military Conflict in Ukraine and the Middle East Our revenues are susceptible to fluctuations caused by macroeconomic conditions, inflation, changes to currency exchange rates, rising interest rates, actual and threatened wars and military actions, threats of or actual recessions, supply chain challenges, market volatility, and other factors, each of which impacts customer confidence, consumer sentiment and demand. Many of these same factors also impact our costs and those of our suppliers through higher raw material prices, transportation costs, labor costs, supply and distribution operations. In 2023, we believe that sales of our products were primarily harmed by macroeconomic conditions that ultimately adversely impacted disposable income and consumer demand. In particular, dental practices and industry research firms reported deteriorating orthodontic trends for the third and fourth quarters of 2023, including decreased patient visits and increased patient appointment cancellations, along with fewer case starts overall, especially among adult patients. The impact of declining demand varied by time and region, making operational results uncertain and difficult to predict. Additionally, many of our international operations are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2023, the macroeconomic slowing or contraction resulted in foreign exchange volatility causing the U.S dollar to strengthen against other currencies. This negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operation compared to 2022. Foreign exchange 39 volatility and the subsequent strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar against other currencies remains uncertain and unpredictable. Moreover, military conflicts increase the unpredictability of the volatile macroeconomic conditions. While the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine did not materially impact our 2023 financial condition and results of operations, we expect the conflict will continue to create market uncertainties and dampen consumer sentiment and demand, particularly in Europe. Similarly, the recent conflict in the Middle East may further exacerbate general and regional macroeconomic instability, particularly if fighting is prolonged, it spreads to other locations, creates shipping and logistical challenges or cost increases, or leads to sanctions or boycotts. Our iTero business is headquartered in Israel and the timing and cost of shipping our products has been impacted. Additionally, we have employees and consultants in Israel that have been called for military service and they may be unavailable for an unknown period of time. The conflict may continue to spread to other areas which may further impact our business. We continue to monitor the potential for violence and military actions that may directly or indirectly impact our personnel, manufacturing, supply chain, and sales. Changing Product Preferences As the markets for clear aligners and digital processes and workflows used to transform the practice of dentistry continue to mature, we anticipate customer and patient expectations and demands will evolve. We expect to meet customer demands with innovative treatment options that include more choices to address a wider scope of treatment goals and budgets based on our existing and new products. This may result in larger and unpredictable variations in geographic and product mix and selling prices with uncertain implications on our financial statements and business operations. We strive to manage the challenges from the trends and uncertainties, including the macroeconomic conditions, military conflict and the evolution of our target markets, by focusing on improving our operations, building flexibility and efficiencies in our processes, adjusting our business models to changing circumstances and offering products that meet market demand. Specifically, we are managing cost impacts through pricing actions, implementing cost saving measures and slowing hiring. We also continue to innovate and introduce new and enhanced products that augment our doctor customer and patient experiences. For instance, in the first quarter of 2023, we successfully launched the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product. The 3in3 configuration offers doctors Invisalign Comprehensive treatment with a three-year treatment expiration date and three additional clear aligners included prior to the treatment expiration date. We anticipate adoption of the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product will continue to increase in 2024. The 3in3 product allows us to recognize more revenue up front but is offered at a lower price as compared to our traditional Invisalign comprehensive product that has a five-year treatment expiration date with unlimited additional clear aligner prior to the treatment end date. Further discussion of the impact of these challenges on our business may be found in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Key Financial and Operating Metrics We measure our performance against these strategic priorities by the achievement of key financial and operating metrics. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our business operations reflect the following: Revenues of $3,862.3 million, an increase of 3.4% year-over-year; Clear Aligner revenues of $3,199.3 million, an increase of 4.1% year-over-year; Americas Clear Aligner case revenues of $1,463.0 million, a decrease of 0.6% year-over-year; International Clear Aligner case revenuesof $1,449.5 million, an increase of 7.4% year-over-year; Clear Aligner volume increase of 0.4% year-over-year and Clear Aligner volume increase for teenage patients of 7.8% year-over-year; Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services revenues of $662.9 million, an increase of 0.1% year-over-year; Income from operations of $643.3 million and operating margin of 16.7%; Effective tax rate of 30.6%; Net income of $445.1 million with diluted net income per share of $5.81; Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $980.8 million as of December 31, 2023; Operating cash flow of $785.8 million; Capital expenditures of $177.7 million, predominantly related to purchases of property, plant and equipment; and Number of employees was 21,610 as of December 31, 2023, a decrease of 6.7% year-over-year. Other Statistical Data and Trends 40 As of December 31, 2023, 17 million people worldwide have been treated with our Invisalign system. Management measures these results by comparing to the millions of people who can benefit from straighter teeth and uses this data to target opportunities to expand the market for orthodontics by educating consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign system. For the fourth quarter of 2023, total Invisalign cases submitted with a digital scanner in the Americas increased to 95.1%, up from 92.7%* in the fourth quarter of 2022 and international scans increased to 88.1%, up from 86.8% in the fourth quarter of 2022. For the fourth quarter of 2023, 98.0% of Invisalign cases submitted by North American orthodontists were submitted digitally. The total utilization rate in 2023 was 19.1 cases per doctor compared to 19.3* cases per doctor in 2022 and 20.9* cases per doctor in 2021. Our utilization rates have declined in 2023 due to the macroeconomic conditions and other factors as described in the Trends and Uncertainties section above. In general, we expect utilization rates to rise over time although they are likely to fluctuate from period to period. North America: The utilization rate among our North American orthodontist customers was 94.5 cases per doctor in 2023 compared to 94.9* cases per doctor in 2022 and 99.7* cases per doctor in 2021 and the utilization rate among our North American GP customers was 14.0 cases per doctor in 2023 compared to 13.9 cases per doctor in 2022 and 14.3 cases per doctor in 2021. International: International doctor utilization rate was 16.3 cases per doctor in 2023 compared to 16.2 cases per doctor in 2022 and 17.5 cases per doctor in 2021. * Invisalign utilization rates are calculated by the number of cases shipped divided by the number of doctors to whom cases were shipped. Our International region includes Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC). Latin America (LATAM) is excluded from the International region based on its immateriality to the year; however is included in the Total utilization. During the third quarter of 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues that were previously included in Non-Case revenues and have recast business metrics for the periods presented above accordingly. Results of Operations 41 Net Revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Systems and Services segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of Comprehensive Products, Non-Comprehensive Products and Non-Case revenues as defined below: Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Comprehensive and Invisalign First. Non-Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Moderate, Lite and Express packages and Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus. We also offer in the U.S., Canada, and EMEA, a Doctor Subscription Program which is our monthly subscription-based clear aligner program. The program allows doctors the flexibility to order retainers and low-stage touch-up clear aligners within their subscribed tier and is designed for a segment of experienced Invisalign trained doctors who are currently not regularly using our retainers or low-stage aligners. The low-stage aligners, the Touch up product, are included as a Non-Comprehensive Product. Non-Case products include, but are not limited to, retention products including retention aligners ordered through the Doctor Subscription Program, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment and Invisalign Accessory Products that are complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products such as aligner cases (clamshells), teeth whitening products, cleaning solutions (crystals, foam and other material) and other oral health products available in certain commerce channels in select markets. Our Systems and Services segment consists of our iTero intraoral scanning systems, which includes a single hardware platform and restorative or orthodontic software options. Our services include subscription software, disposables, rentals, leases, pay per scan services, as well as exocads CAD/CAM software solutions that integrate workflows to dental labs and dental practices. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Systems and Services segments by region for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, Net Revenues 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Clear Aligner revenues: Americas $ 1,463.0 $ 1,471.9 $ (9.0) (0.6) % $ 1,471.9 $ 1,548.8 $ (76.9) (5.0) % International 1,449.5 1,349.0 100.5 7.4 % 1,349.0 1,498.7 (149.7) (10.0) % Non-case 286.9 251.7 35.2 14.0 % 251.7 199.6 52.1 26.1 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 3,199.3 $ 3,072.6 $ 126.7 4.1 % $ 3,072.6 $ 3,247.1 $ (174.5) (5.4) % Systems and Services net revenues 662.9 662.1 0.9 0.1 % 662.1 705.5 (43.5) (6.2) % Total net revenues $ 3,862.3 $ 3,734.6 $ 127.6 3.4 % $ 3,734.6 $ 3,952.6 $ (217.9) (5.5) % During 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues. Touch Up case revenues were previously recorded in Non-case revenues. We have recast the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 to reflect this change. Amount and percentage changes are based on recast amounts. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 42 Clear Aligner Case Volume Case volume data which represents Clear Aligner case shipments for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Total case volume 2,408.5 2,398.4 10.2 0.4 % 2,398.4 2,559.6 (161.3) (6.3) % During 2023, we began including Touch Up case revenues in Americas and/or International net revenues. Touch Up case revenues were previously recorded in Non-case revenues. We have recast the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 to reflect this change. Amount and percentage changes are based recast amounts. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Total net revenues increased by $127.6 million in 2023 as compared to 2022, primarily due to an increase in Clear Aligner average selling price (ASP), an increase in Clear Aligner non-case revenue and higher Systems and Services services mix, partially offset by a decrease in both scanner volumes and ASPs. Clear Aligner - Americas Americas net revenues decreased by $9.0 million in 2023 as compared to 2022, primarily due to a 2.1% decrease in case volumes, resulting in a reduction of net revenues of $31.4 million, partially offset by a $22.4 million increase due to higher ASP. Higher ASP includes price increases which increased net revenues by $68.6 million along with higher additional aligners which increased net revenues by $43.9 million. The increases in ASP were partially offset by higher promotional discounts which decreased net revenues by $44.3 million, a product mix shift to lower priced products which reduced net revenues by $37.6 million and higher sales credits which lowered net revenues $11.5 million. Clear Aligner - International International net revenues increased by $100.5 million in 2023 as compared to 2022due to a 3.5% increase in case volumes, resulting in an increase of net revenues by $46.9 million, and higher ASP increasing net revenues by $53.6 million. Higher ASP was largely due to higher additional aligners increasing net revenues by $100.8 million and price increases on most products which increased net revenues by $96.9 million. The increases in ASP were partially offset by a product mix shift to lower priced products reducing net revenues by $68.2 million, higher promotional discounts which reduced net revenues by $52.5 million, and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which decreased net revenues by $27.2 million. Clear Aligner - Non-Case Non-case net revenues increased by $35.2 million in 2023 compared to 2022 mainly due to increased volume of Vivera retainers across all regions which includes retention aligners ordered through our Doctor Subscription Program. Systems and Services Systems and Services net revenues decreased by $0.9 million in 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily due to a lower number of scanners sold which lowered net revenues by $26.1 million and lower scanner ASP which reduced net revenues by $23.9 million. The decrease in scanner net revenues was mostly offset by higher service revenues of $31.8 million and other revenues which increased $19.1 million primarily due to revenue from sales of certified pre-owned scanners, CAD/CAM software, and scanner rentals. 43 Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 911.3 $ 844.4 $ 66.9 $ 844.4 $ 772.7 $ 71.7 % of net segment revenues 28.5 % 27.5 % 27.5 % 23.8 % Gross profit $ 2,288.0 $ 2,228.2 $ 59.9 $ 2,228.2 $ 2,474.4 $ (246.2) Gross margin % 71.5 % 72.5 % 72.5 % 76.2 % Systems and Services Cost of net revenues $ 244.1 $ 256.4 $ (12.3) $ 256.4 $ 244.5 $ 11.9 % of net segment revenues 36.8 % 38.7 % 38.7 % 34.7 % Gross profit $ 418.8 $ 405.6 $ 13.2 $ 405.6 $ 461.0 $ (55.4) Gross margin % 63.2 % 61.3 % 61.3 % 65.3 % Total cost of net revenues $ 1,155.4 $ 1,100.9 $ 54.5 $ 1,100.9 $ 1,017.2 $ 83.6 % of net revenues 29.9 % 29.5 % 29.5 % 25.7 % Gross profit $ 2,706.9 $ 2,633.8 $ 73.1 $ 2,633.8 $ 2,935.4 $ (301.6) Gross margin % 70.1 % 70.5 % 70.5 % 74.3 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues includes personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, freight and shipping related costs, depreciation on capital equipment and facilities used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets and training costs. Clear Aligner The gross margin percentage decreased in 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily due to a increased manufacturing spend offset by higher ASP. Systems and Services The gross margin percentage increased in 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily due to lower purchase price variance and higher service revenue mix, partially offset by lower ASP. Selling, general and administrative (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 1,703.4 $ 1,674.5 $ 28.9 $ 1,674.5 $ 1,708.6 $ (34.2) % of net revenues 44.1 % 44.8 % 44.8 % 43.2 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense generally includes personnel-related costs, including payroll, stock-based compensation and commissions for our sales force, marketing and advertising expenses including media, market research, marketing materials, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, legal and outside service costs, equipment, software and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and Information Technology (IT). Selling, general and administrative expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher employee costs, including higher salaries expense, fringe benefits, stock-based compensation and bonus, offset by lower advertising and marketing and outside service provider costs. 44 Research and development (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Research and development $ 346.8 $ 305.3 $ 41.6 $ 305.3 $ 250.3 $ 54.9 % of net revenues 9.0 % 8.2 % 8.2 % 6.3 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense generally includes personnel-related costs, including payroll and stock-based compensation, outside service costs associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products, software, equipment, material and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. Research and development expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher employee costs, including higher salaries expense, fringe benefits, stock-based compensation and bonus as we continue to focus our investments in innovation and research. Restructuring and other charges (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Restructuring and other charges $ 13.3 $ 11.5 $ 1.9 $ 11.5 $ $ 11.5 % of net revenues 0.3 % 0.3 % 0.3 % % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Restructuring and other charges incurred during 2023 was primarily related to post employment benefits, including employee severance. Income from operations (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Clear Aligner Income from operations $ 1,182.3 $ 1,134.4 $ 47.8 $ 1,134.4 $ 1,325.9 $ (191.4) Operating margin % 37.0 % 36.9 % 36.9 % 40.8 % Systems and Services Income from operations $ 191.4 $ 179.8 $ 11.6 $ 179.8 $ 259.1 $ (79.4) Operating margin % 28.9 % 27.2 % 27.2 % 36.7 % Total income from operations 1 $ 643.3 $ 642.6 $ 0.7 $ 642.6 $ 976.4 $ (333.8) Operating margin % 16.7 % 17.2 % 17.2 % 24.7 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 1Refer to Note 15 Segments and Geographical Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on unallocated corporate expenses and the reconciliation to Consolidated Income from Operations. Clear Aligner Operating margin percentage remained relatively flat in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to a decrease in gross margin which was offset by operating leverage. Systems and Services Operating margin percentage increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher gross margin. Interest income (in millions): 45 Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Interest income $ 17.3 $ 5.4 $ 11.9 $ 5.4 $ 3.1 $ 2.3 % of net revenues 0.4 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest income generally includes interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest income increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher interest rates during 2023. Other income (expense), net (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Other income (expense), net $ (19.4) $ (48.9) $ 29.5 $ (48.9) $ 32.9 $ (81.8) % of net revenues (0.5) % (1.3) % (1.3) % 0.8 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Other income (expense), net, generally includes foreign exchange gains and losses, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts, interest expense, gains and losses on equity investments and other miscellaneous charges. Other income (expense), net decreased in 2023 compared to 2022primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates offset slightly by losses in investments in private companies. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change 2022 2021 Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 196.2 $ 237.5 $ (41.3) $ 237.5 $ 240.4 $ (2.9) Effective tax rates 30.6 % 39.6 % 39.6 % 23.7 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 is primarily attributable to the application of newly issued tax guidance, including IRS Notice 2023-55 and a change in our jurisdictional mix of income. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Trends As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had the following cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): December 31, 2023 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 937,438 $ 942,050 Marketable securities, short-term 35,304 57,534 Marketable securities, long-term 8,022 41,978 Total $ 980,764 $ 1,041,562 As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $784.7 million and $653.7 million, respectively, of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest our foreign subsidiary earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur significant additional costs upon repatriation of these foreign earnings. We generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to $300.0 million under our revolving line of 46 credit. We believe that our current cash balances and the borrowing capacity under our credit facility, if necessary, will be sufficient to fund our business for at least the next 12 months. Our material cash requirements as of December 31, 2023 are as below: Our purchase commitments consist primarily of open purchase orders for goods and services, including manufacturing inventory, supplies and services, sales and marketing, research and development services and technological services, issued in the normal course of business. Our purchase commitments totaled $1,234.5 million. We anticipate a majority, an estimated $861.5 million, will be payable within the next 12 months. These purchase commitments exclude capital expenditures. We expect our investments in capital expenditures to be approximately $100.0 million for the next 12 months. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building construction and improvements as well as additional manufacturing capacity due to international expansion. Despite the challenging market conditions, we intend to expand our investments in research and development, manufacturing, treatment planning, sales and marketing operations to meet actual and anticipated local and regional demands. We have future operating lease payments of $153.5 million, which includes $13.3 million for leases that have not yet commenced as of December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 4 Leases of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the lease payments. We have approximately $650.0 million available for repurchases of our common stock under the stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2023 (January 2023 Repurchase Program). Our stock repurchase program is subject to periodic evaluations to determine when and if repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders, taking into account prevailing market conditions. Refer to Note 10 Common Stock Repurchase Programs of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our stock repurchase programs. Beginning in fiscal year 2023 our stock repurchases, net of certain issuances, were subject to a 1% excise tax. This excise tax is not expected to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. On January 2, 2024 we completed the acquisition of the remaining interest in privately held Cubicure GmbH for total purchase consideration of approximately $87 million. We paid approximately $79 million in cash, which represents the total purchase consideration less credit for our previously owned interest. As of December 31, 2023, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Sources and Use of Cash The following table summarizes our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 (inthousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 785,776 $ 568,732 $ 1,172,544 Investing activities (195,943) (213,316) (563,430) Financing activities (598,340) (501,686) (458,332) Effects of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 4,671 (11,514) (12,117) Net (decrease) increasein cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (3,836) $ (157,784) $ 138,665 Operating Activities For the year ended December 31, 2023, cash flows from operations of $785.8 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $445.1 million as well as the following: Significant adjustments to net income Stock-based compensation of $154.0 million related to equity awards granted to employees and directors; and 47 Depreciation and amortization of $142.4 million related to our investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Significant changes in working capital Inflow of $46.3 million, net from accrued and other long-term liabilities primarily due to higher incentive accruals for 2023, as well as timing of payments of other activities; Inflow of $86.7 million, net from deferred revenues due to the deferral of revenue on shipments; Inflow of $30.2 million, net from inventories primarily due to lower purchases of materials used in manufacturing; and Outflow of $104.6 million, net from accounts receivable due to timing of collections and increased revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash flows from operations of $568.7 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $361.6 million as well as the following: Significant adjustments to net income Stock-based compensation of $133.4 million related to equity awards granted to employees and directors; Depreciation and amortization of $125.8 million related to our investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; and Significant changes in working capital Inflow of $241.9 million, net from deferred revenues due to the deferral of revenue on shipments over the period as well as timing of revenue recognition; Outflow of $130.1 million, net from inventories primarily due to lower shipment volumes over the period in addition to our efforts to manage stock at appropriate levels as required; and Outflow of $121.9 million, net from accrued and other long-term liabilities primarily due to the payment of our 2021 corporate bonus as well as timing payment of other activities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $195.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 which primarily consisted of purchases of property, plant and equipment of $177.7 million which included a building acquisition for $24.5 million, an investment in the equity of a privately held company of $77.0 million and purchases of marketable securities of $2.9 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $61.4 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $213.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 which primarily consisted of purchases of property, plant and equipment of $291.9 million, purchases of marketable securities of $28.0 million and $12.3 million cash paid relating to a business acquisition. These outflows were partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $121.1 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $598.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 which consisted of payments to repurchase shares of our common stock of $602.4 million and payroll taxes paid for equity awards through share withholdings of $22.6 million, which were partially offset by $26.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Net cash used in financing activities was $501.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 which consisted of payments to repurchase shares of our common stock of $475.0 million and payroll taxes paid for equity awards through share withholdings of $52.8 million, which were partially offset by $26.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We 48 evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis and use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making the estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting estimates affect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are derived primarily from the sale of aligners, scanners, and services from our Clear Aligner and Systems and Services segments. We enter into sales contracts that may consist of multiple distinct performance obligations where certain performance obligations of the sales contract are not delivered in one reporting period. We measure and allocate revenues according to ASC 606-10, Revenues from Contracts with Customers. Determining the standalone selling price (SSP) in order to allocate consideration from the contract to the individual performance obligations is the result of various factors, such as historical prices, changing trends and market conditions, costs, and gross margins. While changes in the allocation of the SSP between performance obligations will not affect the amount of total revenues recognized for a particular contract, any material changes could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which would have a material effect on our financial position and result of operations. This is because the contract consideration is allocated to each performance obligation, delivered or undelivered, at the inception of the contract based on the SSP of each distinct performance obligation. We allocate consideration for each clear aligner treatment plan based on each units SSP. Management considers a variety of factors such as same or similar product historical sales, costs, and gross margin, which may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation in making these estimates. In addition to historical data, we take into consideration changing trends and market conditions. For treatment plans with multiple options, we also consider usage rates, which is the number of times a customer is expected to order more aligners after the initial shipment. Our process for estimating usage rates requires significant judgment and evaluation of inputs, including historical usage data by region, country and channel. We estimate the SSP of each element in a scanner system and services sale taking into consideration same or similar product historical prices as well as our discounting strategies. For CAD/CAM services, we estimate the SSP of each element, including the initial software license and maintenance and support, using data such as historical prices. Unfulfilled Performance Obligations for Clear Aligners and Scanners Our unfulfilled performance obligations, including deferred revenues and backlog, and the estimated revenues expected to be recognized in the future related to these performance obligations are $1,578.3 million and $1,515.4 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. This includes performance obligations from the Clear Aligner reportable segment, primarily the shipment of additional aligners, which are fulfilled over six months to five years. This also includes performance obligations from our Systems and Services reportable segment, primarily services and support, which are fulfilled over one to five years, and contracted deliveries of additional scanners. The estimate includes both product and service unfulfilled performance obligations and the time range reflects our best estimate of when we will transfer control to the customer and may change based on customer usage patterns, timing of shipments, readiness of customers' facilities for installation, and manufacturing availability. Impairment of Goodwill and Finite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually on November 30th or more frequently if indicators of impairment are identified between annual testing dates. Goodwill is tested for impairment between annual testing dates when events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has been reduced below its carrying value. When an indicator of impairment is identified we perform a quantitative impairment assessment in which we determine the fair value of a reporting unit and compare it to the carrying value of the respective reporting unit. We generally determine the fair value of a reporting unit via a discounted cash flow analysis and allocate the net assets of the Company to each reporting unit to determine carrying value. We will record an impairment charge when our quantitative impairment analysis indicates that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Both the determination of fair value and carrying value of a reporting unit require management to exercise significant judgement related to operating assumptions and estimates and allocation methodologies. 49 Finite-Lived Intangible Assets Finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. When an impairment indicator is identified, we perform a recoverability test, in which the estimated, undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset (asset group) are compared to the carrying value of the asset (asset group). When our recoverability test results in undiscounted cash flows more than carrying value, no impairment is recorded. However, when our recoverability test results in undiscounted cash flows that are less than carrying value, we determine the fair value of the asset (asset group) and reduce the carrying amount of the asset (asset group), through an impairment charge, to its fair value. The process of identifying impairment indicators, preparing an undiscounted cash flow and determining the fair value of the asset (asset group) require management to exercise significant judgement related to various assumptions and estimates. If we were to have impairments to goodwill or finite-lived intangible assets, it could adversely affect our operating results. During the years ended 2023 and 2022, we did not have any impairment charges related to our goodwill or finite-lived intangible assets. Accounting for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation of our uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment in the interpretation and application of U.S. GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws related to the allocation of international taxation rights between countries. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of both of our historical and future performance as well as other relevant factors. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income which is determined based on assumptions such as estimated growth rates in revenues, gross margins, future cash flows and discount rates. The accuracy of these estimates could be affected by unforeseen events or actual results, and the sustainability of our future tax benefits is dependent upon the acceptance of these valuation estimates and assumptions by the taxing authorities. Accounting for Legal Proceedings and Litigation Estimates of probable losses resulting from litigation are inherently difficult to make, particularly when the matters are in early procedural stages with incomplete facts and information. The final outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on many variables difficult to predict and, therefore, the ultimate cost to entirely resolve such matters may be materially different than the amount of current estimates. Consequently, new information or changes in judgments and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein.