ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations and intentions regarding our strategic objectives and the means to achieve them, our beliefs regarding the impact of technological innovation on target markets, our beliefs regarding digital dentistry and its potential to impact our business, our expectations for the impact of the exocad acquisition, our beliefs regarding the potential for clinical solutions and their utilization to increase sales of our Invisalign system as well as the complementary products and solutions themselves, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the utilization rates of our products, our expectations regard existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intra-oral scanner sales in international markets, our expectations regarding the productivity impact additional sales representatives will have on our sales, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, including our expectation that international revenues will grow at a faster rate than Americas for the foreseeable future, our expectation regarding customer and consumer purchasing behavior, including expectations related to the consumer demand environment in China especially for U.S. based products and services, our expectations regarding competition, our expectations regarding the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, the businesses of our customers and our own revenues, results of operations and financial condition, our expectations regarding potential additional litigation with SDC Financial LLC and certain affiliates regarding the capital account balance and other matters, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other wor ds indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part 2, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Align Technology, Inc. (We, Our, Align) is a global medical device company engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners and iTero intraoral scanners and services for orthodontics, and restorative and aesthetic dentistry. Aligns products are intended primarily for the treatment of malocclusion or the misalignment of teeth and are designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes that they expect and the results patients desire. Our goal is to establish clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions and our Invisalign clear aligners as the treatment solution of choice by orthodontists, general dental practitioners and patients globally. To date, over 8 million people worldwide have been treated with our Invisalign System. To drive increased clear aligner and other product adoption by dental professionals, we bring to market solutions we believe will strengthen our digital dental platform for doctors, labs and partners, including establishing the iTero intraoral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans and integrating newly acquired CAD/CAM solutions and workflows into the markets for clear aligner orthodontics and dental restorative treatments. We intend to continue focusing on these efforts through execution of our strategic growth drivers. For a further description of our strategic growth drivers, please review the Business Strategy section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2020. The successful execution of our business strategy in 2020 and beyond may be affected by a number of factors including: New Products, Feature Enhancements and Technology. We believe product innovation to treat a wide range of cases from simple to complex drives greater treatment predictability, clinical applicability and ease of use for the dental professionals we serve which supports adoption of Invisalign treatment in their practices. Furthermore, we believe the digital revolution in dentistry is an important aspect of the experience for our customers and their patients, encouraging the utilization of our Invisalign solution. It therefore comprises an important component of our digital approach. 26 Table of Contents Invisalign: Since 2018, we have launched or announced various new offerings including our Invisalign treatment with Mandibular Advancement, Invisalign Go, Invisalign First and Invisalign Moderate. In each instance, we have broadened and strengthened our reach into key markets and demographics central to our strategic plans. iTero Scanner: Over the last two years, we have expanded or announced several new aspects of our intraoral digital scanning solutions including the iTero Element, iTero Element Foundation and iTero Element 5D Imaging system, for which we announced in March 2020 that we had obtained FDA 501(K) clearance. The approval of the iTero Element 5D Imaging system opens the U.S. markets for sales of this unique solution that combines 3D data, intra-oral color photos and NIRI images into a single, integrated scan improving doctor experiences and improving engagement opportunities and communications with their patients. exocad. On March 3, 2020, we entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with CETP III Ivory S.a.r.1., Luxembourg to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of exocad Global Holdings Gmbh ( exocad ), a German dental computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing ("CAD/CAM") software company that offers fully integrated workflows to dental labs and dental practices. We believe the acquisition of exocad will strengthen our digital platform by adding exocads expertise in restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery, and smile design to extend our digital solutions and paving the way for new, seamless cross-discipline dentistry in lab and at chairside. exocad also broadens our reach in digital dentistry with close to 200 partners and more than 35,000 licenses installed worldwide. On April 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition for a purchase price of approximately $430.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments, and exocad became a wholly owned subsidiary. We are in the process of determining the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to exocad's tangible assets and liabilities assumed. We believe that over the long term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign, sales of our intraoral scanners and integration of exocad CAD/CAM solutions chairside and in dental workflows; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. The use of iTero and other digital scanners for Invisalign case submission in place of PVS impressions continues to grow and remains a positive catalyst for Invisalign utilization. For the first quarter of 2020, total Invisalign cases submitted with a digital scanner in the Americas increased to 80.5%, up slightly from 79.5% in the fourth quarter of 2019. International scans increased to 68.7%, up from 64.7% in the fourth quarter of 2019. Invisalign Adoption. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as utilization rates. Our quarterly utilization rates for the last five quarters are as follows: 27 Table of Contents * Invisalign utilization rates are calculated by the # of cases shipped divided by the # of doctors to whom cases were shipped. Our International region includes EMEA and APAC. LATAM is excluded from above chart as it is immaterial. Total utilization rate in the first quarter of 2020 decreased to 5.9 cases per doctor compared to 6.2 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2019. North America: Utilization rate among our North American orthodontist customers increased to 18.9 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2020 compared to 18.3 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2019 while utilization rate among our North American GP was flat or 3.6 cases per doctor in both the first quarter of 2020 and 2019. International: International doctor utilization rate was 5.1 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2020 compared to 5.5 cases in the first quarter of 2019. Over time, we expect utilization rates to gradually improve as a result of advancements in product and technology, which continue to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign clear aligners. In addition, since the teenage and younger market makes up 75% of the approximately 12 million total orthodontic case starts each year, and as we continue to drive adoption by teenage and younger patients through sales and marketing programs, we expect our utilization rates to improve. Our utilization rates, however, may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including seasonal trends in our business along with adoption rates of new products and features. Number of New Invisalign Doctors Trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we trained 4,635 new Invisalign doctors of which 2,035 were trained in the Americas region and 2,600 in the International region. In 2019, we trained a total of 22,275 new Invisalign doctors, of which 9,765 were trained in the Americas region and 12,510 in the International region. International Invisalign Growth. We continue to focus our efforts towards increasing Invisalign clear aligner adoption by dental professionals in the EMEA and APAC markets. Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we experienced slower growth rates than prior periods in China primarily due to the US-China trade war and resulting economic uncertainty which caused headwind for consumer demand especially for consumption of luxury goods and considered purchases. We also believe there has been increased competitive activity from wires and bracket manufacturers and clear aligner suppliers. In addition, in the first quarter of 2020 the outbreak of the novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as COVID-19 caused significant disruption and uncertainty to our business, employees, doctors practices, their patients and consumers. For a further discussion of COVID-19 and its impact on our business, see the section entitled "COVID-19 Update" below. Notwithstanding these current issues in China, we continue to see growth from our international orthodontists and GP customers and positive traction in the GP channel as we continue to segment our sales and marketing resources and programs specifically around each customer channel. In 2019, we continued to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in select country markets. We expect International revenues to grow at a faster rate than the Americas for the foreseeable future due to the outsized impact of COVID-19 on the U.S., our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunities and our relatively low market pen etration of these regions. Our future growth is dependent upon the continued growth of Invisalign adoption and international market penetration. Increasing Competition. Starting in the second quarter of 2019, we began experiencing slower adult case growth from North American orthodontists, reflecting a more competitive environment especially for the young adult demographic. Given increased awareness for direct to consumer clear aligners and heavy advertising spend from direct to consumer companies, case starts may be shifting away from traditional practices. We also believe that doctors are sampling alternative products and/or taking advantage of wires and brackets bundles that essentially give clear aligners away for free or at low prices. In the third quarter of 2019, we increased investment in consumer demand with a new advertising campaign for North America and expanding marketing programs such as our Concierge Service, which connects potential patients with Invisalign doctors increasing conversion and loyalty. In addition, we launched new sales tools and professional marketing materials and we also expect to see increased productivity from the sales representatives we added in 2019. If, however, we are unable to compete effectively with existing products or respond effectively to any products developed by new or existing competitors, our business could be harmed . COVID-19 Update In the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, our efforts to establish clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions and our Invisalign clear aligners as the treatment solution of choice were markedly impacted by the COVID-19 28 Table of Contents pandemic. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we began to experience a sudden downturn in sales initially in Asia, China in particular, starting in January. As the virus spread beyond China and into Europe and thereafter the U.S. in early March, a rapid deceleration of all sales commenced shortly thereafter as the practices of many of our customers were severely curtailed or completely closed. Consequently, through early March the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was progressing consistent with our guidance but ended with net revenues of $551.0 million, an increase of only 0.4% from the prior year comparable period. Clear aligner case volume was 359.4 thousand, essentially flat as compared to the prior year quarter. Scanner and services net revenues decreased by $10.4 million as compared to the same period in 2019. Since first being reported in Wuhan, China in December 2019, COVID-19 has extensively impacted the health and economic environments of virtually all regions globally. In January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. On February 28, 2020, the WHO raised its assessment of the COVID-19 threat from high to very high at a global level due to the continued increase in the number of cases and affected countries, and on March 11, 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. Our business may be particularly susceptible to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic considering all or a material portion of our products may be viewed as discretionary purchases and therefore more susceptible to any global or regional recession that may result from efforts to prevent or delay the spread of the virus. Moreover, efforts to slow or prevent a recurrence of the spread of the virus are likely to continue to curtail the operations of our customers and their patients for an indeterminate period of time, impacting our operations as purchasing decisions are delayed or lost, logistics complexities as a result of closed customer offices, sales and marketing efforts are postponed, and manufacturing operations are curtailed to adjust to declining sales. As we assess the possible future impacts to revenue, operations and financial condition from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are continually evaluating macroeconomic as well as industry-specific factors. For instance, among the many factors we are considering are governmental and societal reactions to the virus, the potential impacts of delays in the restarting of global and regional economic activities, high unemployment levels leading to lower discretionary spending and health insurance coverage, patient reluctance or fear of exposure as a result of orthodontic or dental office visits and other external factors related to COVID-19 that are beyond our control. For example, many jurisdictions have imposed a wide range of restrictions on the physical movement of our employees and vendors to limit the spread of COVID-19. Furthermore, if the COVID-19 pandemic has a substantial continuing impact on our employees or suppliers, our operations, including our ability to obtain the materials needed to manufacture our products and to actually manufacture and deliver our products to customers, may suffer, and in turn our results of operations, financial condition and overall financial performance may be harmed. Furthermore, if our employees, especially any key employees, or their families are sickened by COVID-19, our ability to respond or mitigate the impact of COVID-19 may be adversely impacted. We have taken numerous steps, and will continue to take further actions, in our approach to addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. We have implemented our business continuity plans and our incident management team is in place to respond to changes in our environment quickly and effectively. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we instructed employees at many of our offices across the globe (including our corporate headquarters) to work from home on a temporary basis. We have also taken additional measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic including screening our employees and altering work environments to facilitate social distancing. Furthermore, we are working to mitigate the impact of social distancing for our customers and their patients. These efforts include moving most of our clinical education program critical to doctor engagement online, launching our Invisalign Virtual Appointment tool that enables doctors to easily schedule and conduct virtual appointments with new and existing patients and launching the Invisalign Virtual Care Program that allows doctors to monitor patient treatment through mobile phones. Moreover, we are supporting doctors with advice on safely extending clear aligner usage, maintaining patients at treatment stages and redirecting shipments to optimize patient care. Our support also extends to the financial challenges they may encounter with the assistance of industry experts and through strategic relationships with lenders that can help doctors improve their cash flow. Overall, we believe our expenses in 2020 will remain consistent with 2019 levels. We intend to continue to closely monitor costs to help mitigate the impact of reduced revenues on our fiscal 2020 operating income. We have implemented initiatives to reduce discretionary spend including travel and entertainment; limited hiring to select positions, with a focus on our most critical areas; and postponing or canceling capital expenditures not deemed essential to our primary goal. For a further discussion of our projected 2020 expenses, see the section entitled "2020 Expenses" below. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our employees, customers and the global economy in unprecedented ways and our results of operation, financial condition and overall financial results significantly. At this time, we anticipate varying levels 29 Table of Contents of revenue weakness in all or a material portion of our major markets during at least the second quarter and fiscal year 2020 overall. Given the uncertainties of the ongoing and future global response to the pandemic and the resulting economic downturn that could affect demand for our products, we are unable at present to determine the potential direct and indirect impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future revenues and results of operations. Please refer to Risk Factors for further discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. 2020 Expenses Overall, we expect expenses in 2020 to slightly increase over 2019 levels; however, as a result of the financial impacts of COVID-19, we expect to control our discretionary spend, such as travel and meeting related expenses, and focus investments in the following key areas: Manufacturing capacity and facilities to enhance our regional capabilities; Sales and marketing, including additional direct sales force personnel and consumer marketing; and Product and technology innovation to enhance product efficiency and operational productivity. We believe that these investments will position us to take advantage of a recovering market, increasing our revenues and growing our market share over the long term, but they could negatively impact our results of operations, particularly in the near term. Results of Operations Net Revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of Comprehensive Products, Non-Comprehensive Products and Non-Case revenues as defined below: Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Comprehensive and Invisalign First. Non-Comprehensive Products include, but are not limited to, Invisalign Moderate, Lite and Express packages and Invisalign Go. Non-Case includes, but is not limited to, Vivera retainers along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner segment consists of intraoral scanning systems, which includes a single hardware platform and restorative or orthodontic software options, additional services and ancillary products. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. Net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net Revenues 2020 2019 Net Change % Change Clear Aligner revenues: Americas $ 255.6 $ 245.3 $ 10.3 4.2 % International 195.8 194.9 0.9 0.5 % Non-case 30.2 29.0 1.2 4.1 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 481.6 $ 469.2 $ 12.4 2.6 % Scanner net revenues 69.4 79.8 (10.4) (13.1) % Total net revenues $ 551.0 $ 549.0 $ 2.0 0.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 30 Table of Contents Clear Aligner Case Volume by Region Case volume data which represents Clear Aligner case shipments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Region 2020 2019 Net Change % Change Americas 213.5 213.2 0.3 0.1 % International 145.9 146.3 (0.3) (0.2) % Total case volume 359.4 359.5 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, total net revenues increased by $2.0 million as compared to the same period in 2019 primarily as a result of higher Clear Aligner average selling prices (ASP) that were partially offset by lower scanner net revenues in most regions. Clear Aligner - Americas For the three months ended March 31, 2020, Americas net revenues increased by $10.3 million as compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to higher ASP, which increased net revenues by $9.9 million. Higher ASP was a result of July 2019 price increases across most products which contributed $14.1 million to the revenue growth, a product mix shift towards products with higher ASP, primarily driven by decreased SDC revenues which carried a lower ASP, which increased net revenues $7.6 million and lower net deferrals which increased net revenues by $4.7 million. The ASP increases were partially offset by higher promotional discounts that reduced net revenues by $14.6 million and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Clear Aligner - International For the three months ended March 31, 2020, International net revenues increased by $0.9 million as compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to higher ASP that increased net revenues by $1.4 million. Higher ASP was a result of July 2019 price increases across most products, along with a benefit from going direct in several additional countries and therefore we now recognize direct sales at full ASP rather than the discounted distributor ASP, which increased net revenues by $13.9 million and lower net deferrals that increased net revenues by $5.8 million. The increases in ASP were partially offset by higher promotional discounts that reduced net revenues by $9.6 million, a product mix shift towards lower priced products that reduced net revenues by $5.0 million and unfavorable foreign exchange rates that reduced net revenues by $4.2 million. Clear Aligner - Non-Case For the three months ended March 31, 2020, non-case net revenues, consisting of Vivera Retainers, training fees and other product revenues, increased by $1.2 million as compared to the same period in 2019. This was primarily due to increased Vivera volume across all regions which was partially offset by decreased training and other revenue. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2020, scanner and services net revenues decreased by $10.4 million as compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease in the number of scanners recognized decreased net revenues by $14.9 million and a decrease in scanner ASP also contributed to the decrease in net revenues by $2.6 million. The decreases were partially offset by higher CAD/CAM services which increased net revenues by $7.1 million due to a larger scanner install base. 31 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 130.1 $ 117.8 $ 12.3 % of net segment revenues 27.0 % 25.1 % Gross profit $ 351.5 $ 351.4 $ 0.1 Gross margin % 73.0 % 74.9 % Scanner Cost of net revenues $ 26.5 $ 29.0 $ (2.5) % of net segment revenues 38.2 % 36.4 % Gross profit $ 42.9 $ 50.7 $ (7.9) Gross margin % 61.8 % 63.6 % Total cost of net revenues $ 156.6 $ 146.9 $ 9.7 % of net revenues 28.4 % 26.8 % Gross profit $ 394.4 $ 402.1 $ (7.7) Gross margin % 71.6 % 73.2 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment and facilities used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets and training costs. Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2020, our gross margin decreased as compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to an increase in aligners per case driven by additional aligners in addition to idle capacity due to the impacts of COVID-19. These factors were offset in part by manufacturing efficiencies and higher ASP. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2020, our gross margin decreased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily driven by a decrease in manufacturing volumes and lower ASP. These factors were offset in part by higher service revenues. Selling, general and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 282.9 $ 247.1 $ 35.8 % of net revenues 51.3 % 45.0 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related costs including payroll, commissions and stock-based compensation for our sales force, marketing and administration in addition to media and advertising expenses, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, equipment and maintenance costs, legal and outside service costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and Information Technology (IT). For the three months ended March 31, 2020, selling, general and administrative expense increased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to higher expenses from advertising and marketing costs of $13.2 million and higher compensation related costs of $10.9 million mainly from increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, fringe benefits and stock-based compensation. We also incurred higher expenses from equipment, software and maintenance costs of $5.7 million and legal and outside service costs of $3.6 million. 32 Table of Contents Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Research and development $ 41.5 $ 37.5 $ 4.0 % of net revenues 7.5 % 6.8 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, research and development expense increased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to higher equipment and material costs in addition to higher compensation costs mainly from increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, fringe benefits and stock-based compensation. Impairments and other charges (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Impairments and other charges $ $ 29.8 $ (29.8) % of net revenues % 5.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, there were no impairments and other charges w hile during the same period in 2019, we recorded impairments and other charges of $29.8 million due to costs related to the Invisalign store closures. The impairments and other charges are comprised of operating lease right-of-use assets impairments of $14.2 million, store leasehold improvement and other fixed asset impairments of $14.3 million, and employee severance and other expenses of $1.3 million (Refer to Note 7 Impairments and Other Charges and Note 8 Legal Proceedings of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). Income from operations (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Clear Aligner Income from operations $ 166.4 $ 158.6 $ 7.7 Operating margin % 34.5 % 33.8 % Scanner Income from operations $ 14.4 $ 28.3 $ (13.9) Operating margin % 20.7 % 35.4 % Total income from operations 1 $ 69.9 $ 87.7 $ (17.8) Operating margin % 12.7 % 16.0 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 1 Ref er to Note 15 Segments and Geographical Information of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on unallocated corporate expenses and the reconciliation to Condensed Consolidated Income from Operations . Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2020, our operating margin increased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to the impairments and other charges of $29.8 million that were recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was partially offset by a lower Clear Aligner gross margin and higher operating expenses. 33 Table of Contents Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2020, our operating margin decreased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily driven by a lower Scanner gross margin. Interest income (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Interest income $ 2.0 $ 2.6 $ (0.6) % of net revenues 0.4 % 0.5 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest includes interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, interest income decreased compared to the same periods in 2019 mainly due to lower interest rates. Other income (expense), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Other income (expense), net $ (18.5) $ (5.7) $ (12.8) % of net revenues (3.4) % (1.0) % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Other income (expense), net, includes foreign exchange gains and losses, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts, interest expense, gains and losses on equity investments and other miscellaneous charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, other income (expense), net decreased compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to foreign exchange losses and an unrealized loss on a foreign currency forward contract related to the anticipated exocad acquisition. These decreases were partially offset by realized gains on foreign currency forward contracts and a lower impairment charge on our equity investments in privately held companies. Equity in losses of investee, net of tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Equity in losses of investee, net of tax $ $ 3.9 $ (3.9) % of net revenues % 0.7 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, there were no equity in losses of investee, net of tax. After the second quarter of 2019, we no longer incur equity in losses of investee, net of tax related to SDC as we tendered our SDC equity interest on April 3, 2019 (Refer to Note 4 Equity Method Investments of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on equity method investments). Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,464.8) $ 8.8 $ (1,473.6) Effective tax rates (2,745.3) % 10.4 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 34 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we completed an intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights and fixed assets to our Swiss subsidiary, where our EMEA regional headquarters is located beginning January 1, 2020. The transfer of intellectual property rights did not result in a taxable gain; however, it did result in a step-up of the Swiss tax deductible basis in the transferred assets, and accordingly, created a temporary difference between the book basis and the tax basis of such intellectual property rights. Consequently, this transaction resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and related one-time tax benefit of approximately $1,493.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , which is the net impact of the deferred tax asset recognized as a result of the additional Swiss tax deductible basis in the transferred assets and certain costs related to the transfer of fixed assets and inventory. Our benefit from income taxes was $1,464.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and our provision for income taxes was $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, representing effective tax rates of (2,745.3)% and 10.4%, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 mainly as a result of the aforementioned intra-entity transfer and the recognition of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by state income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain foreign payments. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 mainly as a result of the recognition of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensati on and certain foreign earnings, primarily from the Netherlands and Costa Rica, being taxed at lower tax rates. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 is primarily attributable to the recognition of a deferred tax asset related to the intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales. As of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had the following cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Cash and cash equivalents $ 790,696 $ 550,425 Marketable securities, short-term 318,202 Total $ 790,696 $ 868,627 Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and highly liquid debt instruments which primarily include commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds and certificates of deposit. As of March 31, 2020, approximately $671.5 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from our international operations going forward, and our current plans do not require us to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations as we generate sufficient domestic operating cash flow and have access to external funding under our current revolving line of credit. Subsequent to quarter end, on April 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of exocad for a purchase price of approximately $430.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments, which was funded from cash on hand. Our business has been materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the global and regional efforts by governments to mitigate its spread, and we expect the adverse impacts to our business to continue. We believe that our current cash balances and the borrowing capacity under our existing credit facility, if necessary, will be sufficient to fund our business for at least the next 12 months. However, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to experience reduced cash flow from operations as a result of decreased revenues and slower collections on our accounts receivable. For additional information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our liquidity and capital resources, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors." 35 Table of Contents Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 9,784 $ 117,207 Investing activities 276,211 (74,418) Financing activities (34,733) (92,762) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (11,007) 1,089 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 240,255 $ (48,884) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash flows from operations of $9.8 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $1.5 billion as well as the following: Significant non-cash activities Deferred taxes of $1.5 billion related to the one-time tax benefit associated with the intra-entity sale of certain intellectual property rights; Stock-based compensation of $22.9 million related to equity awards granted to employees and directors; Depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million related to our investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; and Non-cash operating lease cost of $5.5 million. Significant changes in working capital Decrease of $69.1 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities due to timing of payment and activities; Increase of $37.2 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to the timing of payments and activities; and Increase of $22.9 million in deferred revenues corresponding to cases eligible under our additional aligner policy and timing of revenue recognition. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $276.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 which primarily consisted of maturities and sales of marketable securities of $321.5 million and payments of $4.4 million received on an unsecured promissory note issued by SDC in exchange for tendering our shares to them. These inflows were partially offset by purchases of property and plant and equipment purchases of $46.1 million, purchases of marketable securities of $5.3 million, and other investing activities of $1.8 million. For the remainder of 2020 we expect to invest an additional $90.0 million to $100.0 mill ion in capital expenditures related to building purchases and improvements as well as additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion (Refer to Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the purchase of a building in Petach Tivka, Israel). Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $34.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 which consisted of payroll taxes paid for equity awards through share withholdings of $45.4 million which was partially offset by $10.7 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Common Stock Repurchases As of March 31, 2020, we have $100.0 million available for repurchase under the $600.0 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in May 2018 (Refer to Note 11 Common Stock Repurchase Programs of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our stock repurchase programs). 36 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2019 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than obligations described in the Form 10-Q herein, including items disclosed in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 16 "Subsequent Event" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash balances and the borrowing capacity under our existing credit facility, if necessary, will be sufficient to fund our business for at least the next 12 months. However, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to experience reduced cash flow from operations as a result of decreased revenues and slower collections on our accounts receivable. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond our available liquid investments and those available under our credit facility, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase programs or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources other than certain items disclosed in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, goodwill and finite-lived assets and related impairment, and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.