ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In addition to historical information, this quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations regarding the anticipated impact of our new products and product enhancements will have on doctor utilization and our market share, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intra-oral scanner sales in international markets, our expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of establishing regional order acquisition, treatment planning and manufacturing facilities, as well as the anticipated timing of such facilities being operational, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets, impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the level of our operating expenses and gross margins and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part 2, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intraoral scanner as the preferred scanning device for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers set forth in the Business Strategy section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful execution of our business strategy in 2018 and beyond may be affected by a number of other factors including: New Invisalign Product Portfolio and Pricing . In April 2018, we announced that we are expanding Invisalign product portfolio that includes new options and greater flexibility to treat a broader range of patients. The new Invisalign product portfolio offers doctors more choices by extending desirable features across the entire portfolio and creating new Invisalign treatment packages, as well as new options to treat young patients with early mixed dentition (with a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth). The new end-to-end Invisalign portfolio will include clear aligner product offerings for almost every patient age group and case complexity to make it easier for our doctors to tailor treatment planning to the needs of each patient. Pricing and availability for the new Invisalign product offerings and the associated terms and conditions will vary by region and will be effective July 1, 2018. We have begun educating our customers on these upcoming portfolio changes, and we believe our doctors can benefit from the flexible offerings. New Invisalign Products and Feature Enhancements . Product innovation drives greater treatment predictability and clinical applicability and ease of use for our customers which supports adoption of Invisalign treatment in their practices. Our focus is to develop solutions and features to treat a wide range of cases from simple to complex. In March 2017, we announced Invisalign Teen with mandibular advancement, the first clear aligner solution for Class II correction in growing tween and teen patients. This new offering combines the benefits of the most advanced clear aligner system in the world with features for moving the lower jaw forward while simultaneously aligning the teeth. Invisalign Teen with mandibular advancement is now available in Canada and in select Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific (APAC) and Latin America (LATAM) countries. Invisalign Teen with mandibular advancement is pending 510(k) clearance and is not yet available in the United States (U.S.). In April 2018, we announced Invisalign First clear aligners, a treatment option designed with features specifically for younger patients with early mixed dentition. Phase 1 treatment is early interceptive orthodontic treatment for young patients, traditionally done through arch expanders, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted - typically at ages 6 through 10 years. Invisalign First clear aligners are designed specifically to address a broad range of younger patients malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition, and predictable dental arch expansion. Invisalign First clear aligners will be 25 Table of Contents commercially available to Invisalign-trained doctors in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and the EMEA region beginning July 1, 2018. We believe that over the long-term, clinical solutions and treatment tools will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. New iTero Products and Technology Innovation. The iTero scanner is an important component to that customer experience and is central to a digital approach as well as overall customer utilization of Invisalign treatment. In April 2018, we expanded the iTero Element portfolio with the launch of the iTero Element 2 and the iTero Element Flex scanners. These additions build on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio while streamlining orthodontic and restorative workflows. The next-generation iTero Element 2 is designed for greater performance with 2X faster start-up and 25% faster scan processing time compared to the iTero Element. The new iTero Element Flex wand-only configuration is a portable scanner for easy transport from office to office. iTero Element 2 and iTero Element Flex scanners are now available in Canada, the U.S., the majority of European countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom. The existing iTero Element scanner will continue to be available in all markets. On April 25, 2018 we announced that we received market approval of for the iTero Element intra-oral scanner form the China Food and Drug Administration, and we have begun offering this scanner in China. The iTero Element scanner launch in China not only supports growth of our base Invisalign clear aligner business, but also represents a major milestone for digital dentistry in China. As we continue to expand the markets into which we sell our intra-oral scanners, we expect continued growth for the foreseeable future due to the size of the market opportunity and our relatively low market penetration of these regions. We believe that over the long-term, technology innovation and added features and functionality of our iTero scanners will increase adoption of Invisalign and increase sales of our intraoral scanners; however, it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption which may vary by region and channel. Invisalign Adoption. Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption and frequency of use by dental professionals, also known as utilization rates. Our quarterly utilization rates for the last 9 quarters are as follows: * Invisalign utilization rates = # of cases shipped divided by # of doctors cases were shipped to. Previously our utilization numbers reflected utilization rates by North American doctors and by International doctors. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we are reporting on the Americas region (which includes North America and LATAM) and International region (which includes EMEA and APAC). Our historical utilization numbers have been recasted to reflect this new classification. LATAM utilization has been excluded from above chart due to immateriality. Total utilization in the first quarter of 2018 increased to 5.8 cases per doctor compared to 5.4 in the first quarter of 2017. 26 Table of Contents North America: Utilization among our North American orthodontist customers reached an all time high in the first quarter of 2018 at 15.3 cases per doctor. Compared to 12.6 cases per doctor utilized in the first quarter of 2017, the increase in North American orthodontist utilization in the first quarter of 2018 reflects improvements in product and technology which continues to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence such that they now utilize Invisalign more often and on more complex cases, including their teenage patients. International: International doctor utilization of 5.4 cases per doctor in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 5.2 in the first quarter of 2017. International utilization reflects growth in both the EMEA and APAC regions due to increasing adoption of the product due in part to its ability to treat more complex cases. We expect that over the long-term our utilization rates will gradually improve as a result of advancements in product and technology, which continue to strengthen our doctors clinical confidence in the use of Invisalign. In addition, since the teenage and younger market makes up 75% of the 10 million total orthodontic case starts each year and as we continue to drive adoption of teenage and younger patients through sales and marketing programs, we expect our utilization rate to improve. Our utilization rates, however, may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including seasonal trends in our business along with adoption rates of new products and features. Number of New Invisalign Doctors Trained. We continue to expand our Invisalign customer base through the training of new doctors. In 2017, Invisalign growth was driven primarily by increased utilization across all regions as well as by the continued expansion of our customer base as we trained a total of 16,500 new Invisalign doctors, of which 62% were trained in the International region. During the first quarter of 2018, we trained 4,250 new Invisalign doctors of which 1,605 were trained in the Americas region and 2,645 in the International region. International Invisalign Growth. We will continue to focus our efforts towards increasing Invisalign clear aligner adoption by dental professionals in our direct EMEA and APAC markets. On a year over year basis, our International Invisalign volume increased 43.4% driven primarily by increased adoption as well as expansion of our customer base in both EMEA and APAC regions. We continue to see growth from our international orthodontists and GP customers and beginning to see more positive traction in the GP channel from segmenting our sales and marketing resources and programs specifically around each channel. In addition, we believe that continuous product introductions and feature improvements, such as Invisalign treatment with mandibular advancement, provides our customers with continued confidence in treating complex cases as well as teen-aged patients with Invisalign clear aligners. In 2018, we are continuing to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage and professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in selected country markets. We expect International revenues to continue to grow at a faster rate than the Americas for the foreseeable future due to our continued investment in international market expansion, the size of the market opportunity, and our relatively low market penetration of these regions (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. for information on related risk factors). Establish Regional Order Acquisition, Treatment Planning and Manufacturing Operations. We will continue to establish and expand additional order acquisition, treatment planning and manufacturing operations closer to our international customers in order to improve our operational efficiency and to provide doctors confidence in using Invisalign clear aligners to treat more patients and more often (Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors - As we continue to grow, we are subject to growth related risks, including risks related to excess or constrained capacity at our existing facilities. for information on related risk factors). Operating Expenses. We expect operating expenses to increase in fiscal year 2018 due in part to: Investments in international expansion in new country markets; Investments in manufacturing to enhance our regional capabilities; Increases in legal expenses primarily related to the continued protection of our intellectual property rights, including our patents; Increases in sales, marketing and customer support resources; and Product and technology innovation to enhance product efficiency and operational productivity. We believe that these investments will position us to increase our revenue and continue to grow our market share. Stock Repurchases. In February 2018, we repurchased $100.0 million of our common stock on the open market. As of March 31, 2018, we have $100.0 million remaining under the April 2016 Repurchase Plan ( Refer to Note 11 Common 27 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Program of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on stock repurchase program). U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) was enacted into law on December 22, 2017 and impacted our effective tax rate. The TCJA made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings. We recorded a provisional one-time transition tax liability of $73.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and an additional $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2018. Additional work is necessary for a more detailed analysis of our historical foreign earnings as well as potential correlative adjustments. Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to provision from (benefit to) income taxes throughout the fiscal year of 2018 when the analysis is complete. SmileDirectClub. In February 2018, we received a communication on behalf of SDC Financial LLC, SmileDirectClub LLC, and the Members of SDC Financial LLC other than Align (collectively, the "SDC Entities") alleging that the launch and operation of our Invisalign store pilot program constitutes a breach of non-compete provisions applicable to the members of SDC Financial LLC, including Align. As a result of this alleged breach, SDC Financial LLC has notified Align that its members (other than Align) seek to exercise a right to repurchase all of Aligns SDC Financial LLC membership interests for a purchase price equal to the current capital account balance of Align. The SDC Entities also allege that Align has breached confidentiality provisions applicable to the SDC Financial LLC members and demands that Align cease all activities related to the Invisalign store pilot project, close existing Invisalign stores and cease using SDCs confidential information. On April 5, 2018, the SDC Entities initiated proceedings that seek, among other forms of relief, to preliminarily and permanently enjoin all activities related to the Invisalign store pilot project, require Align to close the existing Invisalign stores, prohibit Align from opening any additional stores, and allow the SDC Entities to exercise a right to repurchase all of Align's SDC Financial LLC membership interests for a purchase price equal to the current capital account balance. We dispute the allegations that we have breached our obligations to the SDC Entities, including the allegation that the SDC Entities are entitled to exercise a repurchase right and we will oppose and vigorously defend ourselves in the proceedings. This dispute does not impact Aligns existing supply agreement with SDC which remains in place through 2019 and includes a minimum volume commitment. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of this amended complaint and therefore cannot determine the likelihood of loss nor estimate a range of possible loss, if any. Results of Operations Net revenues by Reportable Segment We group our operations into two reportable segments: Clear Aligner segment and Scanner segment. Our Clear Aligner segment consists of Comprehensive Products, Non-Comprehensive Products and Non-Case revenues as defined below: Comprehensive Products include our Invisalign Full, Teen and Assist products. Non-Comprehensive Products include our Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite, Invisalign i7 and Invisalign Go products in addition to revenues from the sale of aligners to SmileDirectClub (SDC) under our supply agreement. Non-Case includes our Vivera retainers along with our training and ancillary products for treating malocclusion. Our Scanner segment consists of intraoral scanning systems and additional services available with the intraoral scanners that provide digital alternatives to the traditional cast models. This segment includes our iTero scanner and OrthoCAD services. We eliminate unrealized profit on outstanding intercompany transactions. Effective in the first quarter of 2018, Americas region includes North America and LATAM. International region includes EMEA and APAC. Historical data have been recast to reflect the change. 28 Table of Contents Net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Net Revenues 2018 2017 Net Change % Change Clear Aligner revenues: Americas $ 209.6 $ 165.6 $ 44.0 26.6 % International 151.7 98.9 52.8 53.4 % Non-case 24.2 17.9 6.3 35.2 % Total Clear Aligner net revenues $ 385.5 $ 282.4 $ 103.1 36.5 % Scanner net revenues 51.4 27.9 23.5 84.2 % Total net revenues $ 436.9 $ 310.3 $ 126.6 40.8 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Clear Aligner Case Volume by Region Case volume data which represents Clear Aligner case shipments by region for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Region 2018 2017 Net Change % Change Americas 176.5 137.7 38.8 28.2 % International 105.6 73.6 32.0 43.5 % Total case volume 282.1 211.3 70.8 33.5 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , total net revenues increased by $126.6 million as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily as a result of Clear Aligner case volume growth across all regions as well as increased non-case revenues. Clear Aligner - Americas For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Americas net revenues increased by $44.0 million as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to case volume growth across all channels and products which increased net revenues by $46.8 million. This increase was offset in part by lower average selling prices (ASP) which reduced net revenues by $2.8 million. The ASP decline was a result of higher promotional discounts and a shift in product mix towards Non-Comprehensive Products, which collectively reduced revenue by $12.3 million. These factors were partially offset by price increases on our Comprehensive Products effective April 2017 and lower revenue deferrals, which together contributed to net revenues by $8.3 million. Clear Aligner - International For the three months ended March 31, 2018, International net revenues increased by $ 52.8 million as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily driven by case volume growth across all channels and products which increased net revenues by $42.9 million. Additionally, higher ASP contributed $9.9 million to net revenues. This increase was primarily due to the favorable foreign exchange rates of $14.0 million and $5.9 million related to price increases on our Comprehensive Products effective July 2017, partially offset by increased additional aligner deferrals and higher promotional discounts, which collectively reduced net revenues by $9.8 million. 29 Table of Contents Clear Aligner - Non-Case For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , non-case net revenues, consisting of training fees and ancillary product revenues, increased by $6.3 million as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to increased Vivera volume and increased training revenue in both Americas and International. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , scanner and services net revenues increased by $ 23.5 million as compared to the same period in 2017. Scanner and services net revenues increased for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to an increase in the number of scanners recognized and higher CAD/CAM services resulting from a larger installed base of scanners, offset in part by a decrease in scanner ASP. Cost of net revenues and gross profit (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Clear Aligner Cost of net revenues $ 88.5 $ 62.5 $ 26.0 % of net segment revenues 23.0 % 22.1 % Gross profit $ 297.0 $ 219.9 $ 77.1 Gross margin % 77.0 % 77.9 % Scanner Cost of net revenues $ 21.0 $ 12.3 $ 8.7 % of net segment revenues 40.8 % 43.9 % Gross profit $ 30.4 $ 15.8 $ 14.6 Gross margin % 59.2 % 56.1 % Total cost of net revenues $ 109.5 $ 74.7 $ 34.8 % of net revenues 25.1 % 24.1 % Gross profit $ 327.4 $ 235.6 $ 91.8 Gross margin % 74.9 % 75.9 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Cost of net revenues for our Clear Aligner and Scanner segments includes personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation for staff involved in the production process, the cost of materials, packaging, shipping costs, depreciation on capital equipment and facilities used in the production process, amortization of acquired intangible assets and training costs. Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2018, gross margin percentage decreased as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher manufacturing spend driven by operational expansion activities, offset in part by a higher ASP. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2018, gross margin increased compared to the same period in 2017 primarily driven by lower service costs and partially offset by a lower ASP. 30 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Selling, general and administrative $ 199.6 $ 151.1 $ 48.5 % of net revenues 45.7 % 48.7 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related costs including payroll, commissions and stock-based compensation for our sales force, marketing and administration in addition to media and advertising expenses, clinical education, trade shows and industry events, product marketing, outside consulting services, legal expenses, equipment and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and Information Technology (IT). For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , selling, general and administrative expense increased compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher compensation related costs of $26.7 million mainly as a result of increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, incentive bonuses and fringe benefits. We also incurred higher expenses from advertising and marketing of $8.3 million and equipment and maintenance costs of $6.4 million. Research and development (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Research and development $ 29.6 $ 22.8 $ 6.8 % of net revenues 6.8 % 7.3 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Research and development expense includes the personnel-related costs including payroll and stock-based compensation and outside consulting expenses associated with the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products and allocations of corporate overhead expenses including facilities and IT. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , research and development expense increased compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher compensation costs as a result of increased headcount resulting in higher salaries expense, incentive bonuses and fringe benefits. Income from operations (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Clear Aligner Income from operations $ 161.5 $ 114.7 $ 46.8 Operating margin % 41.9 % 40.6 % Scanner Income from operations $ 16.1 $ 6.0 $ 10.1 Operating margin % 31.3 % 21.5 % Total income from operations 1 $ 98.2 $ 61.7 $ 36.5 Operating margin % 22.5 % 19.9 % Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. 1 Refer to Note 14 Segments and Geographical Information of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on unallocated corporate expenses and the reconciliation to Consolidated Income from Operations. 31 Table of Contents Clear Aligner For the three months ended March 31, 2018, operating margin percentage increased compared to the same period in 2017 due to higher revenues from Clear Aligner as well as favorable foreign exchange rates. Scanner For the three months ended March 31, 2018, operating margin percentage increased compared to the same period in 2017 due to higher Scanner revenues as well as favorable foreign exchange rates. Interest income (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Interest income $ 2.2 $ 1.2 $ 1.0 Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Interest includes interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , interest increased compared to the same period in 2017 mainly due to higher interest rates in addition to a larger investment portfolio. Other income (expenses), net (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Other income (expenses), net $ 0.2 $ 0.5 $ (0.3 ) Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. Other income (expenses), net, includes foreign currency revaluation gains and losses, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and other miscellaneous charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , other income (expenses), net decreased compared to the same period in 2017 mainly due to lower foreign exchange gains. Equity in losses of investee, net of tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Equity in losses of investee, net of tax $ 1.8 $ 1.1 $ 0.7 Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, equity in losses of investee, net of tax increased compared to the same period in 2017 due to higher losses attributable from our equity method investments including a higher portional share of the losses due to our additional investment in the company made in the third quarter of 2017 ( Refer to Note 4 Equity Method Investments of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on equity method investments). 32 Table of Contents Income tax (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 2.9 $ (7.2 ) $ 10.1 Effective tax rates 2.9 % (11.4 )% Changes and percentages are based on actual values. Certain tables may not sum or recalculate due to rounding. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, provision for (benefit from) for income taxes was $2.9 million and $(7.2) million, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 2.9% and (11.4)%, respectively. As a result of the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA), the U.S. federal statutory tax rate decreased from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. The increase in effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 is primarily attributable to the decrease in corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% pursuant to the enactment of the TCJA, which reduced the excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and as well as the benefits from foreign earnings being taxed at lower tax rates. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we recognized excess tax benefits of $23.3 million in our provision for income taxes. In June 2017, the Costa Rica Ministry of Foreign Trade, an agency of the Government of Costa Rica, granted an extension of certain income tax incentives for an additional twelve year period. Under these incentives, all of the income in Costa Rica is subject to a reduced tax rate. In order to receive the benefit of these incentives, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain certain minimum levels of fixed asset investment in Costa Rica. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse, and our income in Costa Rica would be subject to taxation at higher rates which could have a negative impact on our operating results. The Costa Rica corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 30% for 2018 and 2017. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the reduction in income taxes due to the reduced tax rate was minimal. ( Refer to Note 12 "Accounting for Income Taxes" for details on income taxes). Liquidity and Capital Resources We fund our operations from product sales. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had the following cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities (in thousands): March 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents $ 498,003 $ 449,511 Marketable securities, short-term 164,740 272,031 Marketable securities, long-term 10,212 39,948 Total $ 672,955 $ 761,490 As of March 31, 2018 , we had $673.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of money market funds and highly liquid debt instruments which primarily include commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. government treasury bonds and certificates of deposit. As of March 31, 2018 , approximately $436.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. The TCJA enacted into law on December 22, 2017 included a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. Under this provision, we have recorded a provisional amount of liability for this deemed repatriation of $73.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and an additional $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2018, which will be paid over the next eight years. We have repatriated $100.0 million to the U.S. in the first quarter of 2018 and we may further repatriate funds in the future to invest in market expansion opportunities, provide additional working capital, and have greater flexibility to fund our stock repurchase program ( Refer to Note 12 "Income Taxes" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details ). 33 Table of Contents Cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 77,332 $ 47,621 Investing activities 109,269 (148,462 ) Financing activities (139,822 ) (33,001 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 1,715 2,430 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 48,494 $ (131,412 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash flows from operations of $77.3 million resulted primarily from our net income of approximately $95.9 million as well as the following: Significant non-cash activities Stock-based compensation was $15.8 million related to equity incentive compensation granted to employees and directors, Depreciation and amortization of $11.4 million related to our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and Net change in deferred tax assets of $4.1 million . Significant changes in working capital Increase of $36.0 million in accounts receivable which is primarily a result of the increase in net revenues, Decrease of $35.5 million in accrued and other long-term liabilities due to timing of payments and activities, and Increase of $28.4 million in deferred revenues corresponding to the increases in case shipments. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $109.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily consisted of maturities and sales of marketable securities of $136.4 million and loan repayment from equity investee of $30.0 million . These inflows were partially offset by purchases of property and plant and equipment purchases of $57.6 million . For the remainder of 2018, we expect to invest an additional $140.0 million to $170.0 million on capital expenditures primarily related to additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $139.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily resulting from common stock repurchases of $100.0 million and payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units through share withholdings of $47.8 million . These outflows were offset in part by $8.0 million from proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Stock Repurchases In February 2018, we repurchased on the open market approximately 0.4 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $252.24 per share, including commission, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $100.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we have $100.0 million remaining under the April 2016 Repurchase Plan (Refer to Note 11 Common Stock Repurchase Program of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on stock repurchase program). 34 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not significantly changed since December 31, 2017 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than obligations described in the Form 10-Q herein. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities combined with our existing borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to generate adequate operating cash flows and need more funds beyond our available liquid investments and those available under our credit facility, we may need to suspend our stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of capital through equity or debt financing, collaborative or other arrangements with other companies, bank financing and other sources in order to realize our objectives and to continue our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Accordingly, the failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources other than certain items disclosed in Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures at the date of the financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, goodwill and finite-lived assets and related impairment, and income taxes. We use authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and other assumptions as the basis for making estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Other than the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard (ASC 606) during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Significant changes to the Revenue Recognition policy as a result of ASC 606 adoption are discussed in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.