ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Item 2 constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Companys management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides certain safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made pursuant to the Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to its forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words AOS, the Company, we, us and our refer to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited and its subsidiaries. This managements discussion should be read in conjunction with the managements discussion included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2017 . Overview We are a designer, developer and global supplier of a broad portfolio of power semiconductors. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 1,700 products, and has grown with the introduction of 80 new products during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, and over 90 new products during each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. During the three months ended September 30, 2017 , we introduced an additional 41 new products. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 688 patents and 121 patent applications in the United States as of September 30, 2017 . We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal computers, flat panel TVs, LED lighting, smart phones, battery packs, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for TVs, computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development and new product introduction as well as to improve our financial performance in the long run. To meet the market demand for more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. On September 5, 2017, we entered into a license agreement with STMicroelectronics International N.V. (STMicro), pursuant to which STMicro granted us a world-wide, royalty-free and fully-paid license to use its technologies to develop, market and distribute certain digital multi-phase controller products, which have been previously offered by STMicro. Under the license agreement, we agreed to pay a total price in cash of $17.0 million based on the payment schedule as set forth in the agreement, approximately $10.1 million, $6.7 million and $0.2 million in calendar year 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. As of September 30, 2017, we recorded $12.7 million in intangible assets, of which $5.6 million was paid to STMicro. On March 29, 2016, we entered into a joint venture contract (the JV Agreement) with two investment funds owned by the Municipality of Chongqing (the Chongqing Funds), pursuant to which we and the Chongqing Funds formed a joint venture, (the JV Company), for the purpose of constructing a power semiconductor packaging, testing and wafer fabrication facility in the Liangjiang New Area of Chongqing, China (the JV Transaction). The total initial capitalization of the JV Company is $330.0 million (the Initial Capitalization), which will be completed in stages. As of September 30, 2017, the Chongqing Funds contributed a total of $120.0 million of initial capital in cash and we contributed $10.0 million in cash and certain intangible assets, as well as certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal titles of such equipment to the JV Company. We own 51%, and the Chongqing Funds own 49%, of the equity interest in the JV Company. If both parties agree that the termination of the JV Company is the best interest of each party or the JV Company is bankrupt or insolvent where 21 either party may terminate early, after paying the debts of the JV Company, the remaining assets of the JV Company shall be paid to the Chongqing Funds to cover the principal of its total paid-in contributions plus interest at 10% simple annual rate prior to distributing the balance of the JV Company's assets to us. We expect the JV Company to commence initial production in mid-calendar year 2018. During the three months ended September 30, 2017 , we recorded $1.5 million in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, representing 49% of the net loss incurred in the JV Company, which was attributable to operating expenses and depreciation expenses offset by equipment lease income and interest income. In the long-term, the JV Company plans to construct and operate a 12-inch wafer fabrication facility for the production of power semiconductors. We expect the joint venture to deliver significant cost savings, and enhance our market positions in China, and drive meaningful improvements in working capital and capital expenditures. As part of the JV Transaction, the JV Company entered into an Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract (the EPC Contract) with The IT Electronics Eleventh Design & Research Institute Scientific and Technological Engineering Corporation Limited (the Contractor), effective as of January 10, 2017 (the "Effective Date"), pursuant which the Contractor was engaged to construct the manufacturing facility contemplated under the JV Agreement. Under the EPC Contract, the Contractors obligations include, but are not limited to: (i) the development of conceptual design, initial design, construction drawing design and optimization, and submission of such designs to the JV Company for examination and confirmation; and (ii) the construction of the assembly and wafer fabrication facilities and related procurement services, including the selection and engagement of subcontractors, in accordance with a construction schedule agreed upon by the parties. The total price payable under the EPC Contract is Chinese Renminbi (RMB) 540.0 million, or approximately $78.0 million, based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollars on the Effective Date, which consists of $2.8 million (RMB 19.5 million) of design fees (Design Fees) and $75.2 million (RMB 520.5 million) of construction and procurement fees (including compliance with safety and aesthetic requirements) (Construction Fees). The Design Fees and Construction Fees will be paid by JV Company pursuant to a payment schedule based on the progress of the construction and the achievements of specified milestones, approximately $58.3 million and $19.7 million in calendar year 2017 and 2018, respectively. The payment may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in RMB foreign exchange rates. As of September 30, 2017 , the JV Company paid approximately $30.1 million under the EPC Contract. During the first quarter of fiscal year of 2018, we released OTF190A60L, the first product in the new MOS5TMHV MOSFET platform. This device provides high-efficiency performance in an easy-to-use solution optimized for server power supplies, high-end computers, charging stations and other high-performance applications. We also introduced AOZ5131QI, the latest generation of power modules. The new device enables high power-density voltage regulator solutions ideal for CPU and GPU power regulation in notebook PCs, servers, and graphic cards. In addition, we expanded our recently launched fast turn-off switched 650V H-series IGBT family with a 1200V rating. The new AOK40B120H1has been developed to address needs of industrial welding and high-frequency converters with 3-phase ac or high voltage dc input. The device offers excellent performance in high switching frequency applications, which can be a perfect fit for high voltage industrial welding machine. Factors affecting our performance Our performance is affected by several key factors, including the following: The global, regional economic and PC market conditions : Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, a deterioration of the global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. In particular, because a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the personal computing ("PC") markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs, a significant decline or downturn in the PC market can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue from the PC market accounted for approximately 38.8% and 35.9% of our total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. In the past, we have experienced a significant global decline in the PC markets due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material negative impact on the demand for our products, revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. In response to this trend, we executed and continue to execute strategies to diversify our product portfolio, penetrate into other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial markets, improve gross margin and profit by implementing cost control measures. While making progress in reducing our reliance on the computing market, we continue to support our computing business and capitalize on the opportunity with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy. If the rate of decline in the PC markets is faster than we expected, or if we cannot successfully diversify or introduce new products to keep pace with the declining PC markets, we may not be able to alleviate its negative impact on our results of operations. 22 Manufacturing costs : Our gross margin may be affected by our manufacturing costs, including utilization of our manufacturing facilities, pricing of wafers from third party foundries and semiconductor raw materials, which may fluctuate from time to time largely due to the market demand and supply. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs associated with our packaging and testing facilities and our Oregon fab. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. In addition, we expect that in the long term our joint venture agreement with the Chongqing Funds will reduce our costs of manufacturing. However, our manufacturing costs may increase in the short term prior to the commencement of operation of the JV Company, because we may be required to incur additional costs to acquire packaging and testing capacity in order make up for the reduced capacity during the period in which we transfer our equipment from Shanghai to Chongqing. Furthermore, from time to time, we may experience wafer capacity constraints, particularly at third party foundries, that may prevent us from fully meeting the demand of our customers. While we can mitigate such constraints by increasing capacity at our own fab, we may not be able to do so quickly or at sufficient level, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Erosion of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect our average selling prices of existing products to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling price by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. Product introductions and customers' product requirements : Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and obtain design wins. Our failure to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet customers' specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and our inability to continue to expand our serviceable markets, could adversely affect our financial performance, including loss of market share. We believe that the JV Transaction will increase and diversify our customer base, particularly in China, in the long term. We expect the JV Company to commence initial production in mid-calendar year 2018. However, there is no guarantee that the JV Company will commence timely or at all, and we may experience delays in the construction of the facility. Even if we are able to commence JV operation, we may not be successful in acquiring a sufficient number of new customers to offset the additional costs due to various factors, including but are not limited to, competition from other semiconductor companies in the region, our lack of history and prior relationships with customers as a new entrant, difficulties in executing our joint venture strategies, lack of control over our operations and the general economic conditions in Chongqing and China. Distributor ordering patterns, customer demand and seasonality : Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlook and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. In recent periods, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the decline of the PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. Furthermore, our revenue may be impacted by the level of demand from our major customers due to factors outside of our control. If these major customers experience significant decline in the demand of their products, encounter difficulties or defects in their products, or otherwise fail to execute their sales and marketing strategies successfully, it may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Because our products typically have three to five year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the 23 power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third-parties through one of our subsidiaries. Our product revenue includes the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers ("ODMs") or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In these situations, we will grant price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and cost associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and inventory reserves. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. We implemented a process to improve our factory capacity utilization rates by transferring more wafer production to our Oregon fab and reducing our reliance on outside foundries. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to market conditions, our goal is to make such rates less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volumes of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. Research and development expenses. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs and other expenses for general and administrative functions as well as costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax 24 planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016, we contributed certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal title of such equipment to the JV Company. As a result of the transfer, we reduced our deferred tax assets by $6.6 million and recorded a $6.6 million in prepaid tax asset, which was amortized to tax expense over the useful life of the assets. As of June 30, 2017, the prepaid tax asset was amortized down to $5.5 million, of which $1.1 million and $4.4 million were included in prepaid and other current assets and other long-term assets on our balance sheet, respectively. On July 1, 2017, we adopted ASU 2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets other than Inventory, which resulted in a de-recognition of a prepaid tax asset of $5.5 million related to the prior period intra-entity asset transfer with the JV Company, with an offsetting reduction to retained earnings. Because the JV Company has a full valuation allowance, there was no change to our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations The following tables set forth statements of operations, also expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 . Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 104,858 $ 97,362 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 77,328 75,418 73.7 % 77.5 % Gross profit 27,530 21,944 26.3 % 22.5 % Operating expenses Research and development 8,325 7,019 7.9 % 7.2 % Selling, general and administrative 14,615 11,183 13.9 % 11.5 % Total operating expenses 22,940 18,202 21.8 % 18.7 % Operating income 4,590 3,742 4.5 % 3.8 % Interest income and other income (loss), net 40 (49 ) % (0.1 )% Interest expense (17 ) (26 ) % % Net income before income taxes 4,613 3,667 4.5 % 3.7 % Income tax expense 1,274 1,237 1.2 % 1.3 % Net income including noncontrolling interest 3,339 2,430 3.3 % 2.4 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1,461 ) (877 ) (1.4 )% (0.9 )% Net income attributable to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited $ 4,800 $ 3,307 4.7 % 3.3 % Share-based compensation expense was allocated as follow: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 316 $ 195 0.3 % 0.2 % Research and development 362 360 0.3 % 0.4 % Selling, general and administrative 1,330 761 1.3 % 0.8 % Total $ 2,008 $ 1,316 1.9 % 1.4 % 25 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 83,678 $ 71,428 $ 12,250 17.2 % Power IC 18,097 22,998 (4,901 ) (21.3 )% Packaging and testing services 3,083 2,936 147 5.0 % $ 104,858 $ 97,362 $ 7,496 7.7 % Total revenue was $104.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $7.5 million , or 7.7% , as compared to $97.4 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $12.3 million and $0.1 million in sales of power discrete products and packaging and testing services, respectively, partially offset by a decrease of $4.9 million in sales of power IC products. The net increase in power discrete and power IC product sales was primarily due to a 5.0% increase in unit shipments, as well as a 2.6% increase in average selling price as compared to the same quarter last year due to a shift in product mix. The increase in revenue of packaging and testing services revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to increased demand. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 77,328 $ 75,418 $ 1,910 2.5 % Percentage of revenue 73.7 % 77.5 % Gross profit $ 27,530 $ 21,944 $ 5,586 25.5 % Percentage of revenue 26.3 % 22.5 % Cost of goods sold was $77.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $1.9 million , or 2.5% , as compared to $75.4 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to increased unit shipments. The increase was partially offset by the overall manufacturing cost reduction due to improved factory utilization as compared to the same quarter last year. Gross margin increased by 3.8 percentage points to 26.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to 22.5% for the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased average selling prices due to a shift in product mix and higher factory utilization during the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Research and development expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 8,325 $ 7,019 $ 1,306 18.6 % Research and development expenses were $8.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $1.3 million , or 18.6% , as compared to $7.0 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expense mainly due to increased headcount and higher bonus expenses, 26 and a $0.5 million increase in product prototyping engineering expense as a result of increased engineering activities in the current quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 14,615 $ 11,183 $ 3,432 30.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $14.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $3.4 million , or 30.7% , as compared to $11.2 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $2.6 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses mainly due to increased headcount and higher bonus expenses, a $0.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense due to increased grant of equity awards, a $0.1 million increase in consulting fees primarily due to increased recruiting costs, as well as a $0.1 million increase in audit and tax consulting fees due to increased consulting activities during the current quarter. Interest income and others, net Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest income and other income (loss), net $ 40 $ (49 ) $ 89 (181.6 )% Interest income and others, net was primarily related to interest earned from cash and cash equivalents, as well as foreign exchange gains (losses). The increase in interest income and other loss, net during the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to lower foreign exchange losses as a result of recent appreciation of USD against RMB. Income tax expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense $ 1,274 $ 1,237 $ 37 3.0 % For the three months ended September 30, 2017, we recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.3 million , of which $0.4 million was related to a discrete tax expense for an intercompany asset transfer. For the three months ended September 30, 2016, we recognized income tax expense of $1.2 million . Excluding the discrete income tax expense, the estimated effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was 19.1% compared to 32.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was lower than the tax expense for the same quarter last year primarily from changes in the mix of earnings in various geographic jurisdictions between the current quarter and the same quarter of last year. 27 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to grow of our business. Currently, we finance our operations and capital expenditures primarily through funds generated from operations. On August 15, 2017, our Oregon subsidiary, Jireh Semiconductor Incorporated (Jireh), entered into a credit agreement with a financial institution (the Bank) that provides a term loan in an amount up to $30.0 million for the purpose of purchasing certain equipment for our fabrication facility located in Oregon. The obligation under the credit agreement is secured by substantially all assets of Jireh and guaranteed by the Company. The credit agreement has a five-year term and matures on August 15, 2022, and Jireh may draw down the loan at any time during the first year. After the first year, Jireh is required to pay to the Bank on each payment date, the outstanding principal amount of the loan in monthly installments. The loan accrues interest based on an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") as defined in the credit agreement, plus specified applicable margin based on the outstanding balance of the loan. The credit agreement contains customary restrictive covenants, including certain financial covenants that require the Company to maintain, on a consolidated basis, specified financial ratios and fixed charge coverage ratio. We are in compliance with these covenants. As of September 30, 2017, no amount was drawn under the credit agreement and the total $30.0 million remained available. In March 2016, we entered into the JV Agreement with an initial capitalization of $330.0 million. By September 30, 2017, the Chongqing Funds contributed a total of $120.0 million of initial capital in cash, and we contributed $10.0 million in cash and certain intangible assets, as well as certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal titles of such equipment to the JV Company. We expect the JV Company to commence initial production in mid-calendar year 2018. Over the long-term, the JV Company plans to construct and operate a 12-inch wafer fabrication facility for the manufacturing or semiconductor products. If both parties agree that the termination of the JV Company is the best interest of each party or the JV Company is bankrupt or insolvent where either party may terminate early, after paying the debts of the JV Company, the remaining assets of the JV Company shall be paid to the Chongqing Funds to cover the principal of its total paid-in contributions plus the interest at 10% simple annual rate prior to distributing the balance of the JV Company's assets to us. In January 2017, the JV Company entered into the EPC Contract. The total price payable by the JV Company under the EPC Contract is approximately $78.0 million, which consists of $2.8 million of design fees and $75.2 million of construction and procurement fees. These fees will be paid by the JV Company pursuant to a payment schedule based on the progress of the construction and the achievements of specified milestones. Assuming all of the specified milestones are achieved in accordance with the construction schedule, the JV Company expects to pay approximately $58.3 million and $19.7 million in calendar year 2017 and 2018, respectively, under the EPC Contract. The actual payments may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in RMB foreign exchange rates. As of September 30, 2017 , the JV Company paid approximately $30.1 million under the EPC Contract. In September 2017, the Board of Directors terminated our prior repurchase program that was approved in 2015 and approved a new repurchase program (the Repurchase Program). The Repurchase Program allows us to repurchase our common shares from the open market pursuant to a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 trading plan or through privately negotiated transactions up to an aggregate of $30.0 million. The amount and timing of any repurchases under the Repurchase Program depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the trading price, volume and availability of our common shares. Shares repurchased under this program are accounted for as treasury shares and the total cost of shares repurchased is recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. There is no guarantee that such repurchases under the Purchase Program will enhance the value of our shares. During the three months ended September 30, 2017 , we did not repurchase any shares pursuant to the Repurchase Program or the prior repurchase program. Since the inception of the prior repurchase program in 2010, we repurchased an aggregate of 5,723,093 shares from the open market including shares purchased in the Tender Offer for a total cost of $50.8 million , at an average price of $8.87 per share, excluding fees and related expenses. As of September 30, 2017 , of the 5,723,093 repurchased shares, 120,504 shares with a weighted average repurchase price of $10.73 per share, were reissued at an average price of $6.09 per share pursuant to option exercises and vested restricted share units. We had $30.0 million remained available under the Repurchase Program as of September 30, 2017. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. In the long-term, we may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The 28 incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash and cash equivalents As of September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017 , we had $180.2 million and $115.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of cash on hand and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Of the $180.2 million and $115.7 million cash and cash equivalents, $141.9 million and $73.9 million, respectively, are deposited with financial institutions outside the United States. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,250 $ 9,297 Net cash used in investing activities (34,821 ) (16,994 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 86,846 38,664 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 182 33 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 64,457 $ 31,000 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $12.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 resulted primarily from net income of $3.3 million and non-cash expenses of $9.1 million , offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $0.2 million . The non-cash expenses of $9.1 million included a $7.0 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and a $2.0 million of share-based compensation expense. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $0.2 million were primarily due to a $2.9 million increase in inventories, a $3.2 million increase in other current and long term assets due to increase in advance payments to vendors, partially offset by a $3.0 million decrease in accounts receivable from timing of billings and collection of payments, a $2.4 million increase in accrued and other liabilities and a $0.7 million increase in income taxes payable. Net cash provided by operating activities of $9.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 resulted primarily from net income of $2.4 million and non-cash expenses of $14.1 million, offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.2 million. The non-cash expenses of $14.1 million include a $6.5 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, a $1.3 million of share-based compensation expense, a $0.4 million of gain on disposal of property and equipment, and a $6.6 million of deferred income taxes. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.2 million were primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable from timing of billings and collection of payments, a $1.2 million increase in inventories, a $5.7 million increase in other current and long term assets due to increase in advance payments to vendors, and a $2.8 million decrease in accounts payable due to timing of payment, partially offset by a $0.3 million increase in income taxes payable and a $2.6 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities of $34.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to $28.3 million purchases of property and equipment, including $21.2 million purchase in the Joint Venture Company, $5.7 million in purchases of intangible asset, and $0.8 million increase in restricted cash during the quarter. Net cash used in investing activities of $17.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily attributable to $17.4 million purchases of property and equipment and land to increase our in-house production capacity and to support the Joint Venture Company, partially offset by $0.4 million proceeds from sale of certain equipment. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities of $86.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to $87.0 million proceeds from investment by noncontrolling interest and $0.2 million of proceeds from exercise of 29 stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities of $38.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily attributable to $33.0 million proceeds from investment by noncontrolling interest and $6.0 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units. Capital expenditures Capital expenditures were $28.3 million and $17.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in capital expenditure was primarily due to EPC construction payment in connection with the JV Transaction, additional purchase of equipment and assets, and investment in R&D to improve our technology and support our new product introductions. In general, our capital expenditures primarily consists of purchases of equipment for our packaging and testing services and for our Oregon fab, purchases of equipment and construction payment in Chongqing for the Joint Venture Company, investment in new technology as well as for upgrading our operational and financial systems. We expect that our capital expenditures will continue to increase in order to support the JV Transaction and to develop products for new markets, including markets for digital multi-phase controller products. Commitments See Note 11 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2017 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii) arrangements. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes outside of our ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 30