ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Item 2 constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future financial performance of the Company; the expected ramp up timeline of the 12-inch fab at the JV Company; the impact of government investigation and coronavirus on our financial performance; and other statements and information set forth under the heading Factors Affecting Our Performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Companys management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides certain safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made pursuant to the Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to its forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words AOS, the Company, we, us and our refer to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited and its subsidiaries. This managements discussion should be read in conjunction with the managements discussion included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 2, 2020 . Overview We are a designer, developer and global supplier of a broad portfolio of power semiconductors. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 2,300 products, and has grown significantly with the introduction of over 160 new products in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, and over 200 new products in each of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2020 , we introduced an additional 44 new products. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 832 patents and 70 patent applications in the United States as of September 30, 2020 . We also have a total of 861 foreign patents, which were based primarily on our research and development efforts through September 30, 2020 . We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced manufacturing and packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal and portable computers, graphic cards, flat panel TVs, home appliances, smart phones, battery packs, game consoles, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for TVs, computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate an 8-inch wafer fabrication facility located in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development, new product introduction and improve our financial performance. To meet the market demand for the more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. We formed a joint venture (the JV Company) which consists of a power semiconductor packaging, testing and 12-inch wafer fabrication facility in Chongqing, China with two investment funds owned by the Municipality of Chongqing (the Chongqing Funds). We currently own 51%, and the Chongqing Funds own 49%, of the equity interest in the JV Company. While the JV Company is our consolidated subsidiary for purpose of financial reporting, it operates as an independent and separate legal entity. As a result, the JV Companys assets and liabilities are generally segregated from our company's assets and liabilities. For example, the JV Company incurs debt through its own financing and bank loan agreements, and our parent company and other subsidiaries are not parties to these agreements and do not provide any guarantee or security for the JV Companys debt, nor do we have direct access to any cash proceeds borrowed from such loan agreements. As part of our strategic plan, we built the JV Company to fulfill growing customer demand. We expect the joint venture to provide much needed capacity to support our future growth, enhance our market positions in China, and drive improvements in capital expenditures. During the quarter ended September 30, 2020, the additional capacity at the JV Company contributed significantly 29 to meeting the increasing demand for our products. The JV Company has reached its targeted production of assembly and testing and is currently ramping up its Phase I of the 12-inch wafer fabrication. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded $0.8 million in net loss attributable to the noncontrolling interest in the JV Company. Our current goal is to achieve Phase I target run rate in the quarter ending September 30, 2021, but our goal may be affected by the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic and related economic downturn, intensified geopolitical tensions between China and U.S., logistical difficulties and other factors beyond our control. We will continue to monitor and evaluate market conditions closely during this period and react quickly to the changing environment as necessary to achieve an optimal production level at the JV Company. During the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020, we continued our diversification program by developing new silicon and packaging platforms to expand our serviceable available market, or SAM and offer higher performance products. Our metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors, or MOSFET, an power IC product portfolio expanded significantly. Our high performance products and deepened customer relationships with our OEM and ODM customers resulted in our record high quarterly revenue of $151.6 million, a 28.6% growth compared to the same quarter last year. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic to our Business Our business operations have been impacted, and expect to continue to be impacted, by the global COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic downturn. Numerous governmental jurisdictions, including the States of California, Oregon and Texas in the U.S. and countries throughout the Asia Pacific region have imposed stay-at-home orders, quarantines, travel bans and similar governmental orders and restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19. Such orders and restrictions have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays in commercial activities, unprecedented and widespread unemployment, disruptions to ports and other shipping infrastructure, border closures, and other travel or health-related restrictions, thereby negatively impacting our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees, offices, and the entire semiconductor ecosystem. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and changing consumer behaviors due to various government restrictions, including "stay-at-home" orders, we have experienced shifting market trends, including an increasing demand in markets for notebooks, PCs and gaming devices and decreasing demand for mobile phone products. While we have recently benefited from the increasing demand for PC related products, there is no guarantee that this trend will continue, and such increasing demand may discontinue or decline as government authorities relax COVID-19 related restrictions. Furthermore, as the COVID-19 pandemic continues and global economic downturn and high unemployment persist, consumer spending in general may slow down substantially, in which case we may experience a significant decline of customer orders for our products, including those designed for PC-related applications, and such decline is expected to adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. While some government authorities recently have permitted some reopening of businesses and approved gradual easing of various restrictions, many businesses may decide not to open fully or at all due to ongoing concerns with safety at the workplace, and there is no guarantee that governmental orders will not be re-imposed or modified to reinstate prior restrictions if the COVID-19 pandemic continues or caseloads deteriorate. In an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees and to comply with various government and regulatory guidelines, we took proactive actions to adopt policies and protocols at our locations around the world, including social distancing guidelines, working from home, limiting the number of employees attending meetings, reducing the number of people in our sites at any one time, and suspending employee travel. In the U.S., federal and state authorities imposed stay-at-home orders, we have taken similar proactive actions in California, Oregon and Texas where we have business activities in order to protect the health and safety of our employees, while maintaining our core operations. We expect these measures will result in difficulties and logistical challenges in our business operations, and in some cases, reduce the productivity of our workforce and cause disruptions and delays in shipping products to our customers. This may impact our ability to respond quickly and effectively to changing market demands as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause economic disruption and recession around the globe. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and related events have slowed the pace of ramp-up activities at the JV Company, and we have modified our goal and currently we expect to achieve Phase I target run rate in the quarter ending September 30, 2021. We cannot predict the long-term economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, but we will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions altering our business operations that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and stakeholders, or as required by federal, state, or local authorities. The ultimate effects that any such alterations or modifications may have on our business are not clear, including the effects on our customers, employees, and prospects, or on our financial results. 30 Other Factors affecting our performance In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as described above, our performance is affected by several key factors, including the following: Costs of JV Company and digital power business: We have incurred an increase in operating expenses due to the additional costs associated with pre-production and production ramp-up activities of the JV Company, as well as the initial startup work to develop and establish our new digital power business, both of which have had a significant impact on our financial performance. Even though the COVID-19 pandemic has slowed its production, we are making persistent progress. The JV Company has reached its targeted production of assembly and testing and is currently ramping up its Phase I of the 12-inch wafer fabrication. For the quarter ending December 31, 2020, we expect the JV Company to gradually increase the production of its 12-inch wafer fabrication and assembly and test. We did not incur pre-production costs after July 2019 as the JV Company has commenced limited mass production. In addition, we are developing our digital power business based on the STMicro license agreement, which will allow us to design and distribute a full suite of advanced low-voltage power IC products. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional costs, including costs relating to compensation of qualified engineers and technical staff and other research and development and management activities, as we continue to build this new business. In the short term, we will not be able to generate sufficient amount of revenue from either of these two business initiatives to offset the increased costs, which will likely negatively impact our results of operations. Manufacturing costs : Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors including our manufacturing costs, utilization of our manufacturing facilities, the production mixtures of our sales, pricing of wafers from third party foundries and pricing of semiconductor raw materials. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs associated with our packaging and testing facilities at our Oregon fab and our Chongqing fabrication facility operated by the JV Company. We expect that in the long term our JV Company will reduce our cost of manufacturing. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience wafer capacity constraints, particularly at third party foundries, that may prevent us from meeting fully the demand of our customers. While we can mitigate such constraints by increasing and re-allocating capacity at our own fab, we may not be able to do so quickly or at sufficient level, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Erosion and fluctuation of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect our average selling prices of existing products to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling price by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. These strategies may cause the average selling price of our products to fluctuate significantly from time to time, thereby affecting our financial performance and profitability. The global, regional economic and PC market conditions : Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, a deterioration of the global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. For example, because a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the personal computing ("PC") markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs, a significant decline or downturn in the PC market can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. The PC markets have experienced a modest global decline in recent years due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material impact on the demand for our products. While recently we have experienced an increase of demand in PC market due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting shift in market trend, we cannot predict whether and how long this trend will continue. A decline of the PC market may have a negative impact on our revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. We have executed and continue to execute strategies to diversify our product portfolio, penetrate other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial markets, and improve gross margins and profit by implementing cost control measures. While making efforts to reduce our reliance on the computing market, we continue to support our computing business and capitalize on the opportunities in this market with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy to gain market share. Product introductions and customers' product requirements : Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and seek and acquire design wins. Our failure to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet 31 customers' specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and our inability to continue to expand our serviceable markets, could adversely affect our financial performance, including loss of market share. We believe that the JV Transaction will increase and diversify our customer base, particularly in China, in the long term. However, the ramp-activities and production schedule of our JV Company have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related events, as discussed above. Even if we are able to ramp up the operation of the JV Company timely, we may not be successful in acquiring a sufficient number of new customers to offset additional costs due to various factors, including but are not limited to, competition from other semiconductor companies in the region, our lack of history and prior relationships with customers as a new entrant, difficulties in executing our joint venture strategies and the general economic conditions in Chongqing and China. Distributor ordering patterns, customer demand and seasonality : Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlook and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. In recent periods, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the decline of the PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. Furthermore, our revenue may be impacted by the level of demand from our major customers due to factors outside of our control. If these major customers experience significant decline in the demand of their products, encounter difficulties or defects in their products, or otherwise fail to execute their sales and marketing strategies successfully, it may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Regulatory Development: The U.S. Department of Justice commenced an investigation into the Companys compliance with export control regulations relating to certain business transactions with Huawei and its affiliates (Huawei), which were added to the Entity List by the Department of Commerce (DOC) in May 2019. In connection with this investigation, DOC requested the Company to suspend shipments of its products to Huawei, and the Company complied with such request, and the Company has not shipped any product to Huawei after December 31, 2019. The Company is currently working with DOC to resolve this issue and seeks permission to reinstate shipment to Huawei. As of the date of this report, DOC has not provided the Company with any definitive timeline or schedule for responding to the Company's request. We expect the financial performance will be negatively impacted by the Huawei shipment interruption until such time when DOC permits us to continue shipment to Huawei. There is no guarantee that DOC will agree to permit us to resume shipment to Huawei on a timely basis, or at all, and we may not be able to acquire new or additional customers or demand to offset such loss of shipment. Our failure to do so will negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Furthermore, the Company is expected to incur significant costs and expenses, including legal and professional fees, in connection with the government investigation, which may reduce our profitability and margin. Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from power discrete products. Because our products typically have three-year to five-year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third parties through one of our subsidiaries. Our product revenue is reported net of the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers ("ODMs") or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In these situations, we will grant 32 price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and costs associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and inventory reserves. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. We implemented a process to improve our factory capacity utilization rates by transferring more wafer production to our Oregon fab and reducing our reliance on outside foundries. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to the market conditions, our goal is to make them less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volume of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and impairment of long-lived assets. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. Research and development expenses. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs and other expenses for general and administrative functions as well as costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. 33 U.S. Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), Enacted March 27, 2020 On March 27, 2020, the United States enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act), which made the changes to existing U.S. tax laws, including, but not limited to, (1) allowing U.S. federal net operating losses originated in the 2018, 2019 or 2020 tax years to be carried back five years to recover taxes paid based upon taxable income in the prior five years, (2) eliminating the 80% of taxable income limitation on net operating losses for the 2018, 2019 and 2020 tax years (the 80% limitation will be reinstated for tax years after 2020), (3) accelerating the refund of prior year alternative minimum tax credits, (4) modifying the bonus depreciation for qualified improvement property and (5) modifying the limitation on deductible interest expense. As a result of the ability to carryback net operating losses from the June 2018 and June 2019 years to the June 2015 to June 2017 tax years, net operating losses which were previously tax-effected using the current 21% U.S. federal tax rate were revalued to the U.S. tax rates in effect for the June 2015 to June 2017 tax years due to the ability of receiving tax refunds for the taxes paid in these years. Accordingly, we reported a discrete tax benefit of $1.1 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2020 related to the re-measurement of the net operating losses that could be realized via the new net operating loss carryback provisions. Results of Operations The following tables set forth statements of operations, also expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 . Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 151,551 $ 117,802 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 109,028 90,870 71.9 % 77.1 % Gross profit 42,523 26,932 28.1 % 22.9 % Operating expenses Research and development 14,691 12,368 9.7 % 10.5 % Selling, general and administrative 17,505 15,185 11.6 % 12.9 % Total operating expenses 32,196 27,553 21.3 % 23.4 % Operating income (loss) 10,327 (621 ) 6.8 % (0.5 )% Interest expense and other income (loss), net (549 ) (827 ) (0.3 )% (0.7 )% Income (loss) before income taxes 9,778 (1,448 ) 6.5 % (1.2 )% Income tax expense 1,011 410 0.7 % 0.3 % Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interest 8,767 (1,858 ) 5.8 % (1.5 )% Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (807 ) (2,867 ) (0.5 )% (2.4 )% Net income attributable to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited $ 9,574 $ 1,009 6.3 % 0.9 % Share-based compensation expense was recorded as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 385 $ 436 0.3 % 0.4 % Research and development 1,080 524 0.7 % 0.4 % Selling, general and administrative 1,411 1,409 0.9 % 1.2 % Total $ 2,876 $ 2,369 1.9 % 2.0 % 34 Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 119,375 $ 100,541 $ 18,834 18.7 % Power IC 29,455 15,724 13,731 87.3 % Packaging and testing services 2,721 1,537 1,184 77.0 % $ 151,551 $ 117,802 $ 33,749 28.6 % Total revenue was $151.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 , an increase of $33.7 million , or 28.6% , as compared to $117.8 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $18.8 million and $13.7 million in sales of power discrete products and sales of power IC products, respectively. The increase in power discrete and power IC product sales was primarily due to a 39.7% increase in unit shipments, partially offset by an 8.4% decrease in average selling price as compared to same quarter last year due to a shift in product mix. The increase in revenue of packaging and testing services for the three months ended September 30, 2020, as compared to same quarter last year, was primarily due to increased demand. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 109,028 $ 90,870 $ 18,158 20.0 % Percentage of revenue 71.9 % 77.1 % Gross profit $ 42,523 $ 26,932 $ 15,591 57.9 % Percentage of revenue 28.1 % 22.9 % Cost of goods sold was $109.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 , an increase of $18.2 million , or 20.0% , as compared to $90.9 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to 28.6% increase in revenue. Gross margin increased by 5.2 percentage points to 28.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2020 , as compared to 22.9% for the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to a reduction of production ramp-up costs in our JV Company during the three months ended September 30, 2020 . Research and development expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 14,691 $ 12,368 $ 2,323 18.8 % Research and development expenses were $14.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 , an increase of $2.3 million , or 18.8% , as compared to $12.4 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $0.6 million increase in employee compensation and benefits expense mainly due to higher bonuses, a $0.8 million increase in product prototyping engineering expense as a result of increased engineering activities, a $0.3 million increase in professional services expense as a result of higher consulting fees. partially offset by lower recruiting fees, as well as a $0.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense due to an increase in stock awards granted during the current quarter. 35 Selling, general and administrative expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 17,505 $ 15,185 $ 2,320 15.3 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $17.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 , an increase of $2.3 million , or 15.3% , as compared to $15.2 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in employee compensation and benefits expenses, mainly due to increased headcount, higher bonus expenses and increased employee insurance expenses. The increase was also attributable a $1.2 million increase in legal expenses related to the government investigation. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in employee business expenses due to decreased travel expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Interest expense and other income (loss), net Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest expense and other income (loss), net $ (549 ) $ (827 ) $ 278 (33.6 )% Interest expense was primarily related to bank borrowings. The increase in interest expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the same period last year was primarily due to an increase in bank borrowings, partially offset by a $2.7 million interest refund from the Chinese government in the JV Company in the same period last year. Interest income and others were primarily related to interest earned from cash and cash equivalents, as well as foreign exchange gains (losses). The decrease in interest income and others, net during the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to higher foreign currency exchange gains as a result of the depreciation of USD against RMB. Income tax expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense $ 1,011 $ 410 $ 601 146.6 % For the three months ended September 30, 2020 , the Company recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.0 million , compared to income tax expense of $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 . The income tax expense of $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 included a $0.03 million discrete tax benefit. The income tax expense of $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 included a $0.02 million discrete tax expense. Excluding the discrete income tax items, the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 was 10.7% and (27.3)%, respectively. The changes in the effective tax rate and tax expense between the periods resulted primarily from the Company reporting pretax book income of $9.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 vs. a pretax book loss of $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to grow our business. To date, we finance our operations and capital expenditures primarily through funds generated from operations and borrowings under our term loans, financing lease and other debt agreements. 36 In October 2019, our subsidiary in China entered into a line of credit facility with Bank of Communications Limited in China. This line of credit matures on February 14, 2021 and is based on the China Base Rate multiplied by 1.05, or 4.99% on October 31, 2019. The purpose of the credit facility is to provide short-term borrowings. We could borrow up to approximately RMB 60.0 million or $8.5 million based on the currency exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. Dollar on October 31, 2019. As of September 30, 2020 , there was no outstanding balance under the loan. On November 16, 2018, our subsidiary in China entered into a line of credit facility with Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, which expired on September 30, 2019. The purpose of the credit facility was to provide short-term borrowings. We could borrow up to approximately RMB 72.0 million or $10.3 million based on currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on November 16, 2018. In October 2019, this line of credit was renewed with the same terms and a maturity date of September 30, 2020. On September 30, 2020 , there was no outstanding balance under the line of credit and the line of credit expired. On August 9, 2019, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries (the "Borrower") entered into a factoring agreement with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited ("HSBC"), whereby the Borrower assigns certain of its accounts receivable with recourse. This factoring agreement allows the Borrower to borrow up to 70% of the net amount of its eligible accounts receivable of the Borrower with a maximum amount of $30.0 million. The interest rate is based on one month London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.75% per annum. We are the guarantor for this agreement. We are accounting for this transaction as a secured borrowing under the Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets guidance. In addition, any cash held in the restricted bank account controlled by HSBC has a legal right of offset against the borrowing. This agreement, with certain financial covenants required, has no expiration date. The Borrower was in compliance with these covenants as of September 30, 2020 . During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the Borrower borrowed $29.7 million and repaid this amount in full. As of September 30, 2020 , there was no outstanding balance and the Borrower had unused credit of approximately $30.0 million . On May 1, 2018, Jireh Semiconductor Incorporated ("Jireh"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a loan agreement with a financial institution (the "Bank") that provided a term loan in the amount of $17.8 million . The obligation under the loan agreement is secured by certain real estate assets of Jireh and guaranteed by the Company. The loan has a five-year term and matures on June 1, 2023. Beginning June 1, 2018, Jireh made consecutive monthly payments of principal and interest to the Bank. The outstanding principal accrues interest at a fixed rate of 5.04% per annum on the basis of a 360-day year. The loan agreement contains customary restrictive covenants and includes certain financial covenants that require the Company to maintain, on a consolidated basis, specified financial ratios. We were in compliance with these covenants as of September 30, 2020 . As of September 30, 2020 , the outstanding balance of the term loan was $15.7 million . On August 15, 2017, Jireh entered into a credit agreement with the Bank that provided a term loan in an amount up to $30.0 million for the purpose of purchasing certain equipment for our fabrication facility located in Oregon. The obligation under the credit agreement is secured by substantially all assets of Jireh and guaranteed by us. The credit agreement has a five -year term and matures on August 15, 2022. In January 2018 and July 2018, Jireh drew down the loan in the amount of $13.2 million and $16.7 million , respectively. Beginning in October 2018, Jireh was required to pay to the Bank on each payment date, the outstanding principal amount of the loan in monthly installments. The loan accrues interest based on an adjusted LIBOR as defined in the credit agreement, plus a specified applicable margin in the range of 1.75% to 2.25% , based on the outstanding balance of the loan. The credit agreement contains customary restrictive covenants and includes certain financial covenants that require us to maintain, on a consolidated basis, specified financial ratios and fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with these covenants as of September 30, 2020 . As of September 30, 2020 , the outstanding balance of the term loan was $14.9 million . In September 2017, the Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the Repurchase Program) that allowed us to repurchase our common shares from the open market pursuant to a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 trading plan or through privately negotiated transactions up to an aggregate of $30.0 million . The amount and timing of any repurchases under the Repurchase Program depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the trading price, volume and availability of our common shares. Shares repurchased under this program are accounted for as treasury shares and the total cost of shares repurchased is recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. We did not repurchase any shares pursuant to the Repurchase Plan during the three months ended September 30, 2020 . Since the inception of the program, we repurchased an aggregate of 6,784,648 shares for a total cost of $67.3 million , at an average price of $9.92 per share, excluding fees and related expenses. As of September 30, 2020 , of the 6,784,648 repurchased shares, 146,928 shares with a weighted average repurchase price of $10.30 per share, were reissued at an average price of $5.25 per share pursuant to option exercises and vested restricted share units. We had $13.4 million remained available under the Repurchase Program as of September 30, 2020 . 37 We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. In the long-term, we may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. JV Company Financing Transactions From time to time the JV Company entered into financing and loan agreements with banks and other third parties to fund capital expenditures and other operational expenses in connection with the constructions and ramp-up of the manufacturing facility in Chongqing. The JV Company incurs debt through its own financing agreements, and our parent company and other subsidiaries are not parties to these agreements and do not provide any guarantee or security for JV Companys debt, nor do we have direct access to any cash proceeds borrowed from such loan agreements. On May 9, 2018 (the Effective Date), the JV Company entered into a lease finance agreement and a security agreement (the Agreements) with YinHai Leasing Company and China Import/Export Bank (the Lenders). Pursuant to the Agreements, the Lenders agree to provide an aggregate of RMB 400.0 million, or $62.8 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on the Effective Date, of financing to the JV Company (the Lease Financing). In exchange for the Lease Financing, the JV Company agrees to transfer title of its assembly and testing equipment to the Lenders, and the Lenders lease such equipment to the JV Company under a five-year lease arrangement, pursuant to which the JV Company makes quarterly lease payments to the Lenders consisting of principal and interest based on a repayment schedule mutually agreed by the parties. The interest under the Lease Financing is accrued based on the China Base Rate multiplied by 1.15, or 5.4625% on the Effective Date. Under the Agreements, at the end of the five-year lease term, the Lenders agree to sell such equipment back to the JV Company for a nominal amount (RMB 1). The JV Companys obligations under the Lease Financing are secured by the land and building owned by the JV Company (the Collateral). The proceeds from the Lease Financing were used primarily for the acquisition and installation of the 12-inch fabrication equipment and other expenses of the JV Company relating to the completion of the fabrication facility located in Chongqing. The Agreements contain customary representation, warranties and covenants, including restrictions on the transfer of the Collateral. The Agreements also contain customary events of default, including but not limited to, failure to make payments and breach of material terms under the Agreements. The Agreements include certain customary closing conditions, including the payment of deposit by the JV Company. On June 28, 2020, the parties entered into a modification to this agreement, pursuant to which the interest rate was changed to be the five-year loan prime rate in China plus 0.8125%, or 5.4625%. Other terms of this agreement remain the same. As of September 30, 2020 , the outstanding balance of the Lease Financing was approximately $39.8 million based on the currency exchange rate as of September 30, 2020 . On November 29 and December 4, 2018, the JV Company entered into two, one-year loan agreements with China Merchant Bank and Chongqing LiangJiang New District China Merchants Group Limited Company in China to provide loans for RMB 80 million and RMB 20 million , respectively, or $14.5 million in total based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on December 31, 2018, at varying interest rates. On January 20, 2020, the JV Company renewed the loan agreements with the same terms. Interest payments are due monthly and quarterly with the entire principal due not later than January 21, 2021. As of September 30, 2020 , there was no outstanding balance under the loan. On September 23, 2019, the JV Company entered into a short-term loan agreement with China Everbright bank in China. The JV Company can borrow up to RMB 50.0 million or $7.1 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on September 23, 2019 at varying interest rates, in RMB or USD. Interest payments with the entire principal are due no later than 90 days from each borrowing date. As of September 30, 2020 , there was no outstanding balance under the loan. On March 12, 2019, the JV Company entered into a loan agreement with The Export-Import Bank of China in the aggregate principal amount of RMB 200 million (approximately $29.8 million based on currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on March 31, 2019). The loan will mature on February 20, 2025. The JV Company drew down RMB 190 million and RMB 10 million in March 2019 and December 2019, respectively. The loan withdraw window expired on February 28, 2020. The interest is accrued based on the China Base Rate multiplied by 1.1, or 5.39%. The loan requires quarterly interest payments. The principal payments are required to be paid every 6 months over the term of loan commencing in October 2019. This loan is secured by the buildings and certain equipment owned by the JV Company. As a condition of the loan arrangements, 14 million RMB (approximately $2.0 million) of cash is held as restricted cash by the JV Company as a 38 compensating balance at the JV Company's bank until the principal is paid. On June 24, 2020, a modification of this loan was signed, pursuant to which the interest rate was changed to be based on the five-year loan prime rate in China plus 0.74%, or 5.39%. Other terms of this loan remain the same. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, the JV Company paid 6.0 million RMB under this agreement. As of September 30, 2020 , the outstanding balance of the loan was 194 million RMB (equivalent of $28.5 million based on the currency exchange rate as of September 30, 2020 ). In December 2019, the JV Company entered into a loan agreement with China Development Bank in the amount of $24.0 million. The obligation under the loan agreement is secured by certain assets of the JV Company. Beginning December 18, 2020, the JV Company will make consecutive semi-annual payments of principal until December 8, 2024. The interest is accrued based on the LIBOR rate plus 2.8%. The interest is required to be paid March 21 and September 21 each year. As of September 30, 2020 , the outstanding balance of the loan was $24.0 million . On April 15, 2020, the JV Company entered into a one-year loan agreement with China Everbright Bank in China to borrow a maximum of Chinese Renminbi (RMB) 100 million (approximately $14.3 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on April 15, 2020) in the amount in RMB or USD. Interest payments are due on the 20th of each month, and the entire principal is due on April 16, 2021. The loan consists of RMB 20 million for working capital borrowing in Chinese yuan and RMB 80 million for borrowing in US dollars that is collateralized by eligible accounts receivable. During the three months ended June 30, 2020, the JV Company borrowed RMB 20 million, or $2.8 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar, at a fixed interest rate of 5.1375% per annum under the working capital loan. The JV Company also borrowed $7.1 million and $1.9 million at a fixed interest rate of 2.7% and 2.8% per annum, respectively, during the same period under the accounts receivable collateralized loan. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the JV Company repaid $9.0 million and borrowed $11.3 million at a fixed interest rate of 2.7% per annum under the accounts receivable collateralized loan. As of September 30, 2020, the total outstanding balance under the loan was $14.2 million. On April 26, 2020, the JV Company entered into a loan agreement with China Development Bank, Agricultural Bank of China, China Merchants Bank and Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank (collectively, "the Banks") in the aggregate principal amount of RMB 250 million, (approximately $35.7 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on April 26, 2020). The obligation under the loan agreement is secured by certain assets of the JV Company. Beginning December 18, 2020, the JV Company is required to make consecutive semi-annual payments of principal until December 8, 2024. Interest payment is due on March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20 of each year based on China one-year loan prime rate ("LPR") plus 1.3%. The JV Company drew down RMB 250 million (approximately $35.3 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on June 30, 2020) in April 2020. As of September 30, 2020, the outstanding balance of the loan was $36.7 million . Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash As of September 30, 2020 and June 30, 2020 , we had $159.0 million and $162.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily consist of cash on hand, restricted cash, and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Of the $159.0 million and $162.7 million cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, $138.3 million and $120.3 million, respectively, are deposited with financial institutions outside the United States. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 9,848 $ (1,227 ) Net cash used in investing activities (11,337 ) (15,798 ) Net cash used in financing activities (4,186 ) (1,082 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 1,997 (805 ) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (3,678 ) $ (18,912 ) 39 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $9.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 resulted primarily from net income of $8.8 million and non-cash expenses of $15.4 million , partially offset by net changes in assets and liabilities using net cash of $14.3 million . The non-cash expenses of $15.4 million primarily included $12.5 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and $2.9 million of share-based compensation expense. The net changes in assets and liabilities using cash of $14.3 million were primarily due to a $13.0 million increase in accounts receivable as a result of better-than-expected revenue, a $2.2 million increase in inventories due to a continued ramp of the JV Company, and a $1.0 million increase in other current and long-term assets due to increase in advance payments to vendors, and a $0.8 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, partially offset by a $1.9 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of payments, and a $0.7 million increase in income taxes payable. Net cash used in operating activities of $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 resulted primarily from net loss of $1.9 million and net changes in assets and liabilities of $12.6 million, partially offset by non-cash expenses of $13.3 million. The non-cash expenses of $13.3 million primarily included $10.9 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and $2.4 million of share-based compensation expense. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $12.6 million were primarily due to a $5.8 million increase in inventories and a $15.0 million increase in accounts receivable from a one day delay of $9.2 million receivable payment from one of our major distributors due to the bank shut down on September 30, 2019 due to Typhoon Mitag in Taiwan, as well as increased billings in the current quarter as compared to the prior quarter, partially offset by a $3.8 million decrease in other current and long term assets due to decrease in advance payments to vendors, $0.8 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of payment, and a $3.7 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities of $11.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was primarily attributable to $11.3 million purchases of property and equipment, including $3.4 million purchased by the JV Company. Net cash used in investing activities of $15.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to $15.8 million purchases of property and equipment, including $7.5 million purchased by the JV Company. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities of $4.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was primarily attributable to $11.1 million in repayments of borrowings, $4.0 million in payment of finance lease obligations, and $0.4 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by $11.3 million proceeds from borrowings. Net cash used in financing activities of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to $2.1 million in repayments of borrowings, $1.7 million in payment of finance lease obligations, and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by $2.8 million proceeds from borrowings. Commitments See Note 10 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii) arrangements. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes outside of our ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 . 40 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 41