Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "projects," "will be," "will continue," "may," "could," "will likely result," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, the risks discussed in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. As used herein, "Alphabet," "the company," "we," "us," "our," and similar terms include Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. "Alphabet," "Google," and other trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. This report contains additional trade names and trademarks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies' trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. 4 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems, and invest in moonshots like artificial intelligence ("AI") research and quantum computing. We continue this work under the leadership of Sundar Pichai, who has served as CEO of Google since 2015 and as CEO of Alphabet since 2019. Alphabet is a collection of businesses the largest of which is Google which we report as two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. We take a long term view and manage the portfolio of Other Bets with the discipline and rigor needed to deliver long-term returns. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. Access and technology for everyone The Internet is one of the worlds most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. Our mission to organize the worlds information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, weve evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that helps you get things done. Were focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness and success. Across Alphabet, we're focused on continually innovating in areas where technology can have an impact on peoples lives. Every year, there are trillions of searches on Google, and we continue to invest deeply in AI and other technologies to ensure the most helpful Search experience possible. People come to YouTube for entertainment, information and opportunities to learn something new. And Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout your day, no matter where you are. Since the pandemic began, our teams have built new features to help users go about their daily lives, and to support businesses working to serve their customers during an uncertain time. In conjunction with Apple, we launched Exposure Notification apps that are being used by local governments globally. Our COVID-19 Community Mobility Reports are used by public health agencies and researchers around the globe, and weve committed hundreds of millions of dollars to help small businesses through a combination of small business loans, grants and ad credits. Importantly, we've made authoritative content a key focus area across both Google Search and YouTube to help users search for trusted public health information. Our Other Bets are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, as a part of our efforts in the Metro Phoenix area, Waymo is working toward our goal of making transportation safer and easier for everyone while Verily is developing tools and platforms to improve health outcomes. Moonshots Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. The power of machine learning Across the company, machine learning and AI are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Our investments in machine learning over the past decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more helpful. For example, a huge breakthrough in natural language understanding, called BERT, now improves results for almost every English language search query. DeepMind made a significant AI-powered breakthrough, solving a 50-year-old protein folding challenge, which will help us better understand one of lifes fundamental building blocks, and will enable researchers to tackle new and difficult problems, from fighting diseases to environmental sustainability. 5 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Google For reporting purposes, Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. Google Services Serving our users We have always been a company committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, each with broad and growing adoption by users around the world. Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links in our early search results, users can now get direct answers to their questions using their computer, mobile device, or their own voice, making it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. With the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content. Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. Thats why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, by combining the best of our AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like Pixel 4a, Pixel 4a 5G and Pixel 5 phones, Chromecast with Google TV and the Google Nest Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run. Key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to privacy, security and user choice. As the Internet evolves, we continue to invest in keeping data safe, including enhanced malware features in Chrome and improvements to auto-delete controls that will automatically delete web and app searches after 18 months. How we make money Our advertising products deliver relevant ads at just the right time, to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device theyre using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across devices and formats. Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads that appear on Google Search & other properties, YouTube and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our platforms to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades. Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. We have built a world-class ad technology platform for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective. We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging 6 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content. We continue to look to the future and are making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, including Google Play, hardware, and YouTube. We are also investing in research efforts in AI and quantum computing to foster innovation across our businesses and create new opportunities. Google Cloud Google was a company built in the cloud. We continue to invest in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics and AI. We see significant opportunity in helping businesses utilize these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace (formerly known as G Suite). Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on its highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our Google Workspace collaboration tools which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet and more are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of todays great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace collaboration tools. Other Bets Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabets investment in our portfolio of Other Bets include emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the research and development phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues are primarily generated from internet and TV services, as well as licensing and R&D services. Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. We are investing in our portfolio of Other Bets and being very deliberate about the focus, scale, and pace of investments. Competition Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from: General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex. Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google. Social networks, such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline. Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform. Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Apple, AT&T, Disney, Facebook, Hulu, Netflix and TikTok. In businesses that are further afield from our advertising business, we compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. We face competition from: Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Amazon and Apple. 7 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining: Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security and availability of our products and services. Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability At Google, we build technology that helps people do more for the planet. We strive to build sustainability into everything we do, including designing and operating efficient data centers, advancing carbon-free energy, creating sustainable workplaces, building better devices and services, empowering users with technology, and enabling a responsible supply chain. Google has been carbon neutral since 2007, and in 2019, for the third consecutive year, we matched 100% of our electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases. We are the largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world, based on renewable electricity purchased in megawatt-hour (MWh). In 2020, we neutralized our entire legacy carbon footprint since our founding (covering all our operational emissions before we became carbon neutral in 2007), making Google the first major company to achieve carbon neutrality for its entire operating history. In our third decade of climate action, weve set our most ambitious goal yet: to run our business on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times, by 2030. We're also investing in technologies to help our partners and people all over the world make sustainable choices. For example, we intend to enable 5 GW of new carbon-free energy across our key manufacturing regions by 2030 through investment. We anticipate this will spur more than $5 billion in clean energy investments, avoid the amount of emissions equal to taking more than 1 million cars off the road each year, and create more than 8,000 clean energy jobs. With the Environmental Insights Explorer, we're also working to help more than 500 cities and local governments globally reduce a total of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions annually by 2030 thats the equivalent of the annual carbon emissions of a country the size of Japan. Googles products are already helping people make more sustainable choices in their daily lives, whether its using Google Maps to find bike-shares and electric vehicle charging stations, or in many European countries, using Google Flights to sort the least carbon-intensive option flights. There are more tools and information we can provide, and our goal is to find new ways that our products can help 1 billion people make more sustainable choices by 2022. Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. In 2017, we developed a climate resilience strategy, which included conducting a climate scenario analysis. We've earned a spot on the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change A List for seven consecutive years. We believe our CDP climate change response reflects the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In 2020, we issued $5.75 billion in sustainability bonds, the largest sustainability or green bond issuance by any company in history. The net proceeds from the issuance are used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response. More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Googles environmental report. The content of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. 8 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Culture and Workforce Were a company of curious, talented and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society. Our people are critical for our continued success. We work hard to provide an environment where Googlers can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including access to excellent healthcare choices, opportunities for career growth and development, and resources to support their financial health. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles and rewarding them well. Alphabet is committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and were committed to growing a workforce thats representative of the users we serve. More information on Googles approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The content of our diversity reports is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture and listening to all Googlers. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees. As of December 31, 2020, Alphabet had 135,301 employees. When necessary, we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we dont have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, customer support, content moderation and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Googles Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone employees, vendors and temporary staff alike. Government Regulation We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, impact our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A, Trends in Our Business in Part II, Item 7, and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality (including developments and volatility arising from COVID-19). Available Information Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or 9 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, that may be material or of interest to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Specific to our Company We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. We generate d over 80% o f total revenues from the display of ads online in 2020. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies advertising and/or data privacy practices may affect the advertising that we are able to provide, which could harm our business. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult or that block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including COVID-19 and its effects on the global economy (as discussed in greater detail in our COVID-19 risk factor under General Risks below), have impacted the demand for advertising and resulted in fluctuations in the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, and could have an adverse impact on such demand and spend, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business and operating results. Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and new and existing products and services. We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us. Our operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This 10 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers, our operating results could be harmed. Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that we are making across Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments in Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets span a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management resources and, with respect to Other Bets, the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives. Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in hardware, including our smartphones and home devices, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide hardware that competes effectively. Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our salesforce. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives. Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large experienced and well-funded competitors and our offerings may not be able to compete effectively or to operate at sufficient levels of profitability. In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use artificial intelligence and machine learning, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields. Changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our advertising revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, or due to deceleration or decline in demand for devices used to access our services, among other factors. In addition, COVID-19 and its effects on the global economy has impacted and may continue to adversely impact our revenue growth rate (as discussed in greater detail in our COVID-19 risk factor under General Risks below). In addition to a decline in our revenue growth rate, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business, including within advertising where changes such as device mix, property mix, and partner agreements can affect margin. The margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease in the future if we pay a larger percentage of advertising fees to them. We may also pay increased TAC to our distribution partners as well as increased content acquisition 11 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. costs to content providers. We may also face an increase in infrastructure costs, supporting businesses such as Search, Google Cloud, and YouTube. Many of our expenses are less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenues. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands as well as affect our ability to compete. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word Google could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word search. Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the United States, may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word Google to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance equity in our brands may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings. We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could harm our financial condition, operating results, and prospects. We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services. We rely on other companies to manufacture many of our finished products, to design certain of our components and parts, and to participate in the distribution of our products and services. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. We have experienced and/or may experience supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material, component or part availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, tariffs, trade disputes 12 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. and barriers, natural disasters or pandemics (including COVID-19), the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We have experienced and/or may in the future, experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions that could negatively affect our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions and delay product availability. We may enter into long term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may be liable for materials and products that are not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. Our products and services may have quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property, could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims. Interruption, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, complications with the design or implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system could harm our business and operations. The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or pandemics (including COVID-19), the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems at, or impacting, our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems. In addition, we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new ERP system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management, and provide timely information to our management team. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP system without experiencing delays, increased costs, and other difficulties. Failure to successfully design and implement the new ERP system as planned could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or the ERP system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be negatively affected. 13 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, our financial condition, and operating results. Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2020. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following: Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S. Import and export requirements, tariffs and other market access barriers that may prevent or impede us from offering products or providing services to a particular market, or that could limit our ability to source assemblies and finished products from a particular market, and may increase our operating costs. Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud. Evolving foreign events, including the effect of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges (including the transfer of personal data between the EU and the United Kingdom and new customer requirements), in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate. Anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties. Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent. Different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions. Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings, particularly in light of market volatilities due to COVID-19. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to our Industry People access the Internet through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be harmed. People access the Internet through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities. Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users and customers ability to use our products and services, harming our business operations and reputation. 14 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations regarding privacy and data change. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse, or security vulnerabilities or breaches. We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. We may experience future security issues, whether due to employee error or malfeasance or system errors or vulnerabilities in our or other parties systems, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure. Government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and adverse press coverage could harm our business. We may be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. Attacks and security issues could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information, harming our business. While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not respond quickly enough, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data. In addition to our efforts to mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and content review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigations and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we could discover incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. We may not discover all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), and we may be notified of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten peoples safety on- or offline, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert managements time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight. Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we may be unable to adequately detect and prevent such abuses or promote high-quality content, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19). Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts 15 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. (known as web spam) may affect the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading or undesirable content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms. We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on detecting and preventing abuse from low-quality websites. We also face other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or offline, and the spreading of disinformation, among other challenges. If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition or operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert managements time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the United States Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. COVID-19 has also resulted in quarantines, shelter in place orders, and work from home directives, all of which have increased demands for internet access and may create access challenges. These could result in a loss of existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our business. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations We face increased regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in regulatory conditions, laws and policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business. We and other companies in the technology industry face increased regulatory scrutiny, enforcement action, and other proceedings. For instance, the U.S. Department of Justice, joined by a number of state Attorneys General, filed an antitrust complaint against Google on October 20, 2020, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Separately, on December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against Google in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. Various other regulatory agencies in the United States and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, data protection authorities, grand juries, inter-agency consultative groups, and a range of other governmental bodies have and continue to review our products and services and their compliance with laws and regulations around the world. We continue to cooperate with these investigations. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have in the past and may in the future result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring 16 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral litigation, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Changes in international and local social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may increase our cost of doing business, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, offer products or services in certain jurisdictions, or cause us to change our business practices. We have in the past had to alter or withdraw certain products and services as a result of laws or regulations that made them unfeasible, and new laws or regulations, such as the News Media Bargaining Code drafted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission currently tabled in parliament, could result in our having to alter or withdraw products and services in the future. These additional costs of doing business, new limitations or changes to our business model or practices could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices) may make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters central to our business, including, among others: New competition laws and related regulations around the world, that can limit certain business practices, and in some cases, create the risk of significant penalties. Privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 that came into effect in January of 2020 and the California Privacy Rights Act which will go into effect in 2023, both of which give new data privacy rights to California residents, and SB-327 in California, which regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices. Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data. New laws further restricting the collection, processing and/or sharing of advertising-related data. Copyright or similar laws around the world, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (EUCD) of April 17, 2019, which EU Member States must implement by June 7, 2021; and the News Media Bargaining Code drafted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. These and similar laws that have been adopted or proposed introduce new constraining licensing regimes that could affect our ability to operate. The EUCD and similar laws could increase the liability of some content-sharing services with respect to content uploaded by their users. Some of these laws, as well as follow-on administrative or judicial actions, have also created or may create a new property right in news publications that limits the ability of some online services to interact with or present such content. They may also impose compensation negotiations with news agencies and publishers for the use of such content, which may result in payment obligations that significantly exceed the value that such content provides to Google and its users. Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors. Various laws with regard to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices or when we may not proactively discover such content due to the scale of third-party content and the limitations of existing technologies. Other countries, including Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom, have implemented or are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure to remove certain types of content. Various legislative, litigation, and regulatory activity regarding our Google Play billing policies and business model, which could result in monetary penalties, damages and/or prohibition. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could harm our business. For example: 17 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us. There are legislative proposals in both the US and EU that could reduce our safe harbor protection. Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on May 13, 2014 on the right to be forgotten, which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens. The introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies, our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions we take may subject us to additional laws and regulations. Our investment in a variety of new fields, such as healthcare and payment services, may expand the scope of regulations that apply to our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties. We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We are subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware as well as Google Cloud offerings, we also are subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental impacts, or service disruptions or failures. Any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. Our products and services let users exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. We also place advertisements displayed on other companies websites, and we offer third-party products, services, and/or content. The law relating to the liability of online service providers for others activities on their services is still somewhat unsettled around the world. Claims have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services. We may be subject to claims by virtue of our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. Privacy and data protection regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Adverse interpretations of these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and limits on encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation could result in fines and orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to provide services, harming our business operations. Complying with these evolving laws could result in substantial costs and harm the quality of our products and services, negatively affecting our business, and may be particularly challenging during certain times, such as a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19). Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU 18 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. The GDPR creates a range of new compliance obligations. Ensuring compliance with the GDPR is an ongoing commitment that involves substantial costs, and despite our efforts, governmental authorities or others have asserted and may continue to assert that our business practices fail to comply with its requirements. If our operations are found to violate GDPR requirements, we may incur substantial fines, have to change our business practices, and face reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenues. Fines of up to 2% of annual worldwide revenues can be levied for other specified violations. The EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with specified requirements to import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. Recently, the CJEU ruled that the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield is an invalid transfer mechanism, but upheld Standard Contractual Clauses as a valid transfer mechanism, provided they meet certain requirements. The validity of data transfer mechanisms remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S., such as recent recommendations from the European Data Protection Board, the invalidation of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield and potential invalidation of other data transfer mechanisms, which could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the EEA. These developments create some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or harm the operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business. We face, and may continue to face intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We, like other internet, technology and media companies, are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies. We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. They may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services, or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they may harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, or operating results. Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves . 19 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. We engage in share repurchases of our Class C capital stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our stock. The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2020, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximate ly 85.3% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximate ly 51.5% o f the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergeys current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in Alphabets certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of continuing the influence of Larry and Sergey. Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors. Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 20 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. General Risks The continuing impacts of COVID-19 are highly unpredictable and could be significant, and may have an adverse effect on our business, operations and our future financial performance. Since COVID-19 was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization, governments and municipalities around the world have instituted measures in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19, including quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, school closings, travel restrictions, and closure of non-essential businesses. The macroeconomic impacts on our business continue to evolve and be unpredictable and may continue to adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance. As a result of the scale of the ongoing pandemic and the speed at which the global community has been impacted, our revenue growth rate and expense as a percentage of our revenues in future periods may differ significantly from our historical rate, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. The future impacts of the ongoing pandemic on our business, operations and future financial performance could include, but are not limited to: Significant decline in advertising revenues as advertiser spending slows due to an economic downturn. This decline in advertising revenues could persist through and beyond a recessionary period. In addition, we may experience a significant and prolonged shift in user behavior such as a shift in interests to less commercial topics. Significant decline in other revenues due to a decline or shifts in customer demand. For example, if consumer demand for electronics significantly declines, our hardware revenues could be significantly impacted. Adverse impacts to our operating income, operating margin, net income, EPS and respective growth rates - particularly if expenses do not decrease across Alphabet at the same pace as revenue declines. Many of our expenses are less variable in nature and/or may not correlate to changes in revenues, including costs associated with our data centers and facilities as well as employee compensation. As such, we may not be able to decrease them significantly in the short-term, or we may choose not to significantly reduce them in an effort to remain focused on long-term outlook and investment opportunities. Significant decline in our operating cash flows as a result of decreased advertiser spending and deterioration in the credit quality and liquidity of our customers, which could adversely affect our accounts receivable. Investing cash flows could decrease due to slowing spend on data center and facilities construction projects due to a slowing or stopping of construction or significant restrictions placed on construction. The prolonged and broad-based shift to a remote working environment continues to create inherent productivity, connectivity, and oversight challenges and could affect our ability to enhance, develop and support existing products and services, detect and prevent spam and problematic content, hold product sales and marketing events, and generate new sales leads, among others. In addition, the changed environment under which we are operating could have an effect on our internal controls over financial reporting as well as our ability to meet a number of our compliance requirements in a timely or quality manner. Additional and/or extended, governmental lockdowns, restrictions or new regulations could significantly impact the ability of our employees and vendors to work productively. Governmental restrictions have been globally inconsistent and it remains unclear when a return to worksite locations or travel will be permitted or what restrictions will be in place in those environments. As we prepare to return our workforce in more locations back to the office in 2021, we may experience increased costs as we prepare our facilities for a safe return to work environment and experiment with hybrid work models, in addition to potential effects on our ability to compete effectively and maintain our corporate culture. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed under this Item 1A in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results: Our ability to attract user and/or customer adoption of, and generate significant revenues from, new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources. 21 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Our ability to monetize traffic on Google Search & other properties, YouTube and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices. The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure. Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results. The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies. Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions. The seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate. Geopolitical events, including trade disputes. Changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include: Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Failure to successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business or technology. Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company. Integration of the acquired companys accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions. Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms. Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction. In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire. Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. 22 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may harm our financial condition or operating results. If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology, maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depends on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also impact our ability to hire, mobilize or retain some of our global talent. In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management structures or adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), and these changes could impact our ability to compete effectively or have an adverse impact on our corporate culture. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments and, in some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective in nature resulting in fluctuations over time. The market value of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors. The effect of COVID-19 on our impairment assessment for non-marketable investments requires significant judgment due to the uncertainty around the duration and severity of the impact. We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves use of appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, require management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. We adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairments. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses we record on our non-marketable equity securities in any particular period may differ significantly from the realized gains or losses we ultimately experience on such investments. As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future income taxes could be negatively affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax 23 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. assets or liabilities, the application of different provisions of tax laws or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws), as well as certain discrete items. In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including in Europe, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and could require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. It may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, resulting in the diversion of managements time and attention. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that impair our financial results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are considering digital services taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapp ing international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) recently released proposals relating to its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal of having different countries implement a modernized and aligned international tax framework, but there can be no guarantee that this will occur. In addition, in response to significant market volatility and disruptions to business operations resulting from the global spread of COVID-19, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may propose changes to their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect, and more permanent changes. The impact of these potential new rules on us, our long-term tax planning, and our effective tax rate could be material. The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; recommendations by securities analysts or changes in their earnings estimates; announcements about our or our competitors' earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced, in our case, because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings; commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy; the volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale; sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees); short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock; the size, timing and share class of any share repurchase program; and the perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another. In addition, the stock market in general, which can be affected by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which we believe is sufficient to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol GOOG since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol GOOG since April 3, 2014. Holders of Record As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 4,337 and 1,942 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 64 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2020: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs (in thousands) (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions) October 1 - 31 1,869 $ 1,540.84 1,869 $ 22,667 November 1 - 30 1,640 $ 1,748.65 1,640 $ 19,799 December 1 - 31 1,205 $ 1,787.62 1,205 $ 17,645 Total 4,714 4,714 (1) The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Please refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases. (2) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases. 26 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Stock Performance Graphs The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$100 invested on December 31, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 27 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$100 invested on December 31, 2015 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 28 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in