ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among other things, statements regarding: the growth of our business and revenue; seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality, which are likely to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results; our plans to continue to increase our hiring and invest in building the necessary systems infrastructures and to increase the number of acquisitions we expect to make in the remainder of 2010; the decline in our revenue growth rate; our expectation that growth in advertising revenues from our websites will continue to exceed that from our Google Network members websites, which will have a positive impact on our operating margins; our expectation that we will continue to pay most of the Google AdSense fees we receive from advertisers to our Google Network members; our expectation that we will continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads we deliver and to reduce the number of accidental clicks; fluctuations in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click; the fact that we will not recognize any revenue associated with sales of our mobile phone beyond the third quarter of 2010; our belief that our foreign exchange risk management program will not fully offset the exposure to fluctuation in foreign currencies; our expectation that our cost of revenues will increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues; the fact that traffic acquisition costs may fluctuate in the future; the timing for the consummation of our acquisition of ITA Software; continued investments in international markets; our future stock-based compensation expenses; the increase of costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; the sufficiency of our sources of funding; our payment terms to certain advertisers, which may increase our working capital requirements; fluctuations in our capital expenditures; and our belief that the EPAs investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in particular, the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 25 Table of Contents The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Google is a global technology leader focused on improving the ways people connect with information. Our innovations in web search and advertising have made our website a top internet property and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Our mission is to organize the worlds information and make it universally accessible and useful. We serve three primary constituencies: Users. We provide users with products and services that enable people to more quickly and easily find, create, and organize information that is useful to them. Advertisers. We provide advertisers with cost-effective ways to deliver online ads, as well as offline ads on television, to customers across Google sites and through the Google Network, which is the network of online and offline third parties that use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads with their search results and content. Google Network Members and Other Content Providers. We provide the online and offline members of our Google Network with our Google AdSense programs. These include programs through which we distribute our advertisers AdWords ads for display on the websites of our Google Network members as well as programs to deliver ads on television broadcasts. We share most of the fees these ads generate with our Google Network members, thereby creating an important revenue stream for them. In addition, we have entered into arrangements with other content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content, and we may display ads next to or as part of this content on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites. We share most of the fees these ads generate with these content providers and our Google Network members, thereby creating an important revenue stream for these partners. How We Generate Revenue Advertising revenues made up 97% of our revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 96% of our revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010. We derive most of our additional revenues from offering display advertising management services to advertisers, ad agencies, and publishers, as well as licensing our enterprise products, search solutions, and web search technology. Google AdWords is our automated online program that enables advertisers to place targeted text-based and display ads on our websites and our Google Network members websites. Display advertising typically includes static or animated images as well as interactive audio or video media, such as the banner ads on the tops or sides of many popular websites. Most of our AdWords customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on one of its ads. We also offer AdWords on a cost-per-impression basis that enables advertisers to pay us based on the number of times their ads appear on our websites and our Google Network members websites as specified by the advertiser. For advertisers using our AdWords cost-per-click pricing, we recognize as revenue the fees charged advertisers each time a user clicks on one of the ads that appears next to the search results on our websites or next to the search results or content on our Google Network members websites. For advertisers using our AdWords cost-per-impression pricing, we recognize as revenue the fees charged advertisers each time their ads are displayed on our websites or our Google Network members websites. Our AdWords agreements are generally terminable at any time by our advertisers. 26 Table of Contents Google AdSense refers to the online programs through which we distribute our advertisers AdWords ads for display on the websites of our Google Network members as well as programs to deliver ads on television. Our AdSense programs include AdSense for search and AdSense for content. AdSense for search is our online service for distributing relevant ads from our advertisers for display with search results on our Google Network members sites. To use AdSense for search, most of our AdSense for search partners add Google search functionality to their web pages in the form of customizable Google search boxes. When visitors of these websites search either the website or the internet using these customizable search boxes, we display relevant ads on the search results pages, targeted to match user search queries. Ads shown through AdSense for search are text ads. AdSense for content is our online service for distributing ads from our advertisers that are relevant to content on our Google Network members websites. Under this program, we use automated technology to analyze the meaning of the content on the web page and serve relevant ads based on the meaning of such content. For example, a web page on an automotive blog that contains an entry about vintage cars might display ads for vintage car parts or vintage car shows. These ads are displayed in spaces that our AdSense for content partners have set aside on their websites. AdSense for content allows a variety of ad types to be shown, including text ads, image ads, Google Video Ads, link units (which are sets of clickable links to topic pages related to page content), themed units (which are regular text ads with graphic treatments that change seasonally and by geography), and gadget ads (which are customized mini-sites that run as ads on AdSense publisher websites). For our online AdSense program, our advertisers pay us a fee each time a user clicks on one of our advertisers ads displayed on our Google Network members websites or, for those advertisers who choose our cost-per-impression pricing, as their ads are displayed. To date, we have paid most of these advertiser fees to our Google Network members, and we expect to continue doing so for the foreseeable future. We recognize these advertiser fees as revenue and the portion of the advertiser fee we pay to our Google Network members as traffic acquisition costs under cost of revenues. Google Network members do not pay any fees associated with the use of our AdSense program on their websites. Our agreements with Google Network members consist largely of uniform online click-wrap agreements that members enter into by interacting with our registration websites. The standard agreements have no stated term and are terminable at will. Agreements with our larger members are individually negotiated. Both the standard agreements and the negotiated agreements contain provisions requiring us to share with the Google Network member most of the advertiser fees generated by users clicking on ads on the Google Network members website or, for advertisers who choose our cost-per-impression pricing, as the ads are displayed on the Google Network members website. For example, under our standard agreements, we pay 51% and 68% of the fees collected from advertisers to our Google Network members in AdSense for search and AdSense for content, respectively. Google TV Ads enable advertisers, operators, and programmers to buy, schedule, deliver, and measure ads on television. We recognize as revenue the fees charged advertisers each time an ad is displayed on television. We also offer display advertising management services such as media planning, buying, implementation, and measurement tools for advertisers and agencies and forecasting and reporting tools for publishers. We recognize the related fees as other revenues in the period advertising impressions are delivered. In January 2010, we launched our Nexus One mobile phone business. We recognize fees derived from the sale of mobile phones as other revenues in the period in which they are delivered. In July 2010, we discontinued our direct-to-consumer web store channel of distributing our mobile phone. Going forward, our partners will offer our mobile phone to consumers through existing retail channels. As a result, we will not recognize any revenue associated with the sale of our mobile phone beyond the third quarter of 2010. 27 Table of Contents We have entered into arrangements with certain content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content. Our agreements with content providers are typically standard agreements with no stated term and are terminable at will. Agreements with our larger members are individually negotiated. Both the standard agreements and the negotiated agreements contain provisions requiring us to pay the content providers for the content we license. In a number of these arrangements, we display ads on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites from which the content is viewed and share most of the fees these ads generate with the content providers and Google Network members. We recognize these advertiser fees as revenue. We recognize the portion of the advertiser fees we pay to our content providers as content acquisition costs under cost of revenues and the portion we pay to our Google Network members as traffic acquisition costs. In some cases, we guarantee our content providers minimum revenue share or other payments. We believe the factors that influence the success of our advertising programs include the following: The relevance, objectivity, and quality of our search results and the relevance and quality of ads displayed with each search results page. The number of searches initiated at our websites and our Google Network members websites and the underlying purpose of these searches (for instance, whether they are for academic research, to find a news article, or to find a product or service). The number and prominence of ads displayed on our websites and our Google Network members websites. The number of visits to, and the content of, our Google Network members websites and certain of our websites and the relevance and quality of the ads we display next to this content. The advertisers return on investment from advertising campaigns on our websites or our Google Network members websites compared to other forms of advertising. The total advertising spending budgets of each advertiser. The number of advertisers and the breadth of items advertised. The amount we ultimately pay our Google Network members, distribution partners, and our content providers for traffic, access points, and content compared to the amount of revenue we generate. Our ability to increase searches on our websites and our Google Network members websites via new ad formats on devices other than personal computers, including mobile devices. Trends in Our Business Our business has grown rapidly since inception, resulting in substantially increased revenues, and we expect that our business will continue to grow. However, our revenue growth rate has generally declined over time, and we expect it will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition, the difficulty of maintaining growth rates as our revenues increase to higher levels, and increasing maturity of the online advertising market in certain countries. In addition, while general economic conditions have recently improved, the robustness and pace of the global economic recovery remains uncertain, which could negatively affect our revenue growth rate. However, we plan to continue to invest aggressively in our core areas of strategic focus. 28 Table of Contents The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to our users, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and our Google Network members websites. These steps include not displaying ads that generate low click-through rates or that send users to irrelevant or otherwise low quality sites and terminating our relationships with those Google Network members whose websites do not meet our quality requirements. We may also continue to take steps to reduce the number of accidental clicks by our users. These steps could negatively affect the growth rate of our revenues. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenues, as well as aggregate paid click and average cost-per-click growth rates. The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our Google Network members websites through our AdSense program is significantly lower than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from ads placed on our websites because most of the advertiser fees from ads served on Google Network members websites are shared with our Google Network members. For the past five years, growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from our Google Network members websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future, although the relative rate of growth in revenues from our websites compared to the rate of growth in revenues from our Google Network members websites may vary over time. We continue to increase our hiring and invest in building the necessary systems infrastructures required to manage our growth and develop and promote our products and services, and this may cause our operating margins to decrease. We have generally experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in our operations as we build our research and development programs, expand our base of users, advertisers, Google Network members, and content providers, and increase our presence in international markets. Also, we have acquired and expect to continue to acquire businesses and other assets from time to time. In particular, we expect to increase the number of acquisitions we make in 2010 compared to 2009. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, our technologies, and our product offerings. Our full-time employee headcount was 19,786 at June 30, 2009 and 21,805 at June 30, 2010. We expect our cost of revenues will increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods, primarily as a result of forecasted increases in traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, and credit card and other transaction fees, content acquisition costs, and other costs. In particular, traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues may increase in the future if we are unable to continue to improve the monetization or generation of revenues from traffic on our websites and our Google Network members websites. As we expand our advertising programs and other products to international markets, we continue to increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For example, in the second quarter of 2010, the general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies (primarily the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen) had a favorable impact on our revenues as compared to the second quarter of 2009. We have a foreign exchange risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. However, this program will not fully offset the effect of fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our historical operating results as a percentage of our revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 38.2 36.2 38.2 36.2 Research and development 12.8 13.2 12.2 12.6 Sales and marketing 8.5 9.2 8.2 9.1 General and administrative 6.6 6.7 7.3 6.4 Total costs and expenses 66.1 65.3 65.9 64.3 Income from operations 33.9 34.7 34.1 35.7 Interest and other income (expense), net (0.3 ) 1.0 (0.1 ) 0.6 Income before income taxes 33.6 35.7 34.0 36.3 Provision for income taxes 6.7 8.7 7.6 8.4 Net income 26.9 % 27.0 % 26.4 % 27.9 % Revenues The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Advertising revenues: Google websites $ 3,653 $ 4,499 $ 7,345 $ 8,938 Google Network websites 1,684 2,063 3,322 4,099 Total advertising revenues 5,337 6,562 10,667 13,037 Licensing and other revenues 186 258 365 558 Revenues $ 5,523 $ 6,820 $ 11,032 $ 13,595 30 Table of Contents The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Advertising revenues: Google websites 66 % 66 % 67 % 66 % Google Network websites 31 30 30 30 Total advertising revenues 97 96 97 96 Google websites as % of advertising revenues 68 69 69 69 Google Network websites as % of advertising revenues 32 31 31 31 Licensing and other revenues 3 % 4 % 3 % 4 % The increase in our revenues from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010 and from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010 resulted primarily from an increase in advertising revenues generated by Google websites and Google Network members websites, and to a lesser extent, an increase in other revenues as a result of the launch of our mobile phone business in the first quarter of 2010. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in hedging gains recognized in the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to three and six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in advertising revenue for Google websites and Google Network members websites resulted primarily from an increase in the number of paid clicks through our advertising programs, and to a lesser extent, an increase in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The increase in the number of paid clicks generated through our advertising programs was due to an increase in aggregate traffic, certain monetization improvements including new ad formats, and the continued global expansion of our products, our advertiser and our user base, as well as an increase in the number of Google Network members. The increase in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers was primarily driven by the increased spending from advertisers, partially offset by the changes in geographical mix due to traffic growth in emerging markets, where average cost-per-clicks are typically lower, compared to more mature markets. Improvements in our ability to ultimately monetize increased traffic primarily relate to enhancing the end user experience, including providing end users with ads that are more relevant to their search queries or to the content on the Google Network members websites they visit. For instance, these improvements include enabling previously promoted high quality ads to be shown on subsequent pages, adding merchant ratings information to improve users ability to evaluate ads, providing end users with multiple site links for certain web search ad results, reducing the minimum cost-per-click which results in the display of more relevant ads, and changing the clickable area around our AdSense for content text-based ads to only the title and URL to reduce the number of accidental clicks. Aggregate paid clicks on Google websites and Google Network members websites increased approximately 15% from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 15% from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. Average cost-per-click on Google websites and Google Network members websites increased approximately 4% from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 6% from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The rate of change in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click, and their correlation with the rate of change in revenues, has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future because of various factors including the revenue growth rates on our websites compared to those of our Google Network members, advertiser competition for keywords, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, seasonality, the fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs, and general economic conditions. In addition, traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals also contributes to these fluctuations. Changes in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click may not be indicative of our performance or advertiser experiences in any specific geographic market, vertical, or industry. 31 Table of Contents We believe that the increase in the number of paid clicks on Google websites and Google Network members websites is substantially the result of our commitment to improving the relevance and quality of both our search results and the advertisements displayed, which we believe results in a better user experience, which in turn results in more searches, advertisers, and Google Network members and other partners. Revenues by Geography The following table presents our domestic and international revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) United States 47 % 48 % 48 % 48 % United Kingdom 13 % 11 % 13 % 12 % Rest of the world 40 % 41 % 39 % 40 % The decline in revenues from the United Kingdom as a percentage of consolidated revenues from the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 resulted primarily from a less robust economic recovery relative to the United States and rest of the world. The growth in revenues from the United States as a percentage of consolidated revenues from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010 resulted largely from the recovery of key verticals such as retail, travel, finance, and insurance. The growth in revenues from the rest of the world as a percentage of consolidated revenues from three and six months ended June 30, 2009 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 resulted largely from increased acceptance of our advertising programs and our continued progress in developing localized versions of our products for international markets, and the effect of the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies (primarily the Australian dollar). The general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies (primarily the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen) from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010 had a favorable impact on our international revenues. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant in these periods, our revenues from the United Kingdom would have been approximately $5 million, or 1%, higher and our revenues from the rest of the world would have been approximately $29 million, or 1%, lower in the three months ended June 30, 2010. This is before consideration of hedging gains of $67 million and $57 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the three months ended June 30, 2009, and hedging gains of $19 million and $60 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the three months ended June 30, 2010. The general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies (primarily the British pound, the Australian dollar, and the Brazilian real) from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010 had a favorable impact on our international revenues. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant in these periods, our revenues from the United Kingdom would have been approximately $67 million, or 4%, lower and our revenues from the rest of the world would have been approximately $199 million, or 4%, lower in the six months ended June 30, 2010. This is before consideration of hedging gains of $149 million and $129 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the six months ended June 30, 2009 and hedging gains of $29 million and $60 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the six months ended June 30, 2010. Although we expect to continue to make investments in international markets, they may not result in an increase in our international revenues as a percentage of total revenues in 2010 or thereafter. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information about geographic areas. 32 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs. Traffic acquisition costs consist of amounts ultimately paid to our Google Network members under AdSense arrangements and to certain other partners (our distribution partners) who distribute our toolbar and other products (collectively referred to as access points) or otherwise direct search queries to our website (collectively referred to as distribution arrangements). These amounts are primarily based on the revenue share arrangements with our Google Network members and distribution partners. Certain distribution arrangements require us to pay our partners based on a fee per access point delivered and not exclusivelyor at allbased on revenue share. The fees are non-refundable. Further, these arrangements are terminable at will, although under the terms of certain contracts, we or our distribution partners may be subject to penalties in the event of early termination. We recognize fees under these arrangements over the estimated useful lives of the access points (approximately two years) to the extent we can reasonably estimate those lives and they are longer than one year, or based on any contractual revenue share, if greater. Otherwise, we expense the fees as incurred. The estimated useful life of the access points is based on the historical average period of time they generate traffic and revenues. Cost of revenues also includes the expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, including depreciation, labor, energy and bandwidth costs, credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and content acquisition costs. We have entered into arrangements with certain content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content. In a number of these arrangements we display ads on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites from which the content is viewed and share most of the fees these ads generate with the content providers and the Google Network members. To the extent we are obligated to make guaranteed minimum revenue share or other payments to our content providers, we recognize content acquisition costs equal to the greatest of the following three amounts: 1) the contractual revenue share amount, if any, 2) an amount that is based on the number of times the content is displayed, or 3) an amount calculated on a straight-line basis over the terms of the agreements. The following table presents our cost of revenues and cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and our traffic acquisition costs and traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues, for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Cost of revenues $ 2,108 $ 2,467 $ 4,209 $ 4,919 Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues 38.2 % 36.2 % 38.2 % 36.2 % Traffic acquisition costs related to AdSense arrangements $ 1,235 $ 1,463 $ 2,464 $ 2,906 Traffic acquisition costs related to distribution arrangements 218 269 425 537 Traffic acquisition costs $ 1,453 $ 1,732 $ 2,889 $ 3,443 Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues 27.2 % 26.4 % 27.1 % 26.4 % Cost of revenues increased $359 million from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010. The increase was primarily related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $228 million primarily resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program. The increase was also related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $51 million from our distribution arrangements as a result of more traffic directed to our websites as well as more distribution fees paid. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily due to more revenues realized from Google Network members to whom we paid less revenue share. In addition, there was an increase in content acquisition costs of $32 million primarily related to content displayed on YouTube. 33 Table of Contents Cost of revenues increased $709 million from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The increase was primarily related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $442 million primarily resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program. The increase was also related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $112 million from our distribution arrangements as a result of more traffic directed to our websites as well as more distribution fees paid. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily due to more revenues realized from Google Network members to whom we paid less revenue share. We expect cost of revenues will increase in dollar amount and may increase as a percentage of revenues in 2010 and in future periods, primarily as a result of forecasted increases in traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, credit card and other transaction fees, content acquisition, and other costs. Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues may fluctuate in the future based on a number of factors, including the following: The relative growth rates of revenues from our websites and from our Google Network members websites. Whether we are able to enter into more AdSense arrangements that provide for lower revenue share obligations or whether increased competition for arrangements with existing and potential Google Network members results in less favorable revenue share arrangements. Whether we are able to continue to improve the monetization of traffic on our websites and our Google Network members websites. The relative growth rates of expenses associated with distribution arrangements and the related revenues generated, including whether we share with certain existing and new distribution partners proportionately more of the aggregate advertising fees that we earn from paid clicks derived from search queries these partners direct to our websites. Research and Development The following table presents our research and development expenses and research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Research and development expenses $ 708 $ 898 $ 1,349 $ 1,716 Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues 12.8 % 13.2 % 12.2 % 12.6 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel responsible for the research and development of new and existing products and services. We expense research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses increased $190 million from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in labor related costs of $112 million primarily as a result of a 16% increase in research and development headcount, including headcount from acquisitions. In addition, there was an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $20 million. Research and development expenses increased $367 million from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in labor related costs of $231 million primarily as a result of a 16% increase in headcount, including headcount from acquisitions. In addition, there was an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $41 million. 34 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses, and sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Sales and marketing expenses $ 469 $ 629 $ 903 $ 1,236 Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues 8.5 % 9.2 % 8.2 % 9.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel engaged in customer service, sales, and sales support functions, as well as advertising and promotional expenditures. Sales and marketing expenses increased $160 million from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $77 million. In addition, there was an increase in labor related costs of $40 million primarily due to higher commission expense and, to a lesser extent, a 6% increase in sales and marketing headcount. Sales and marketing expenses increased $333 million from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $159 million. In addition, there was an increase in labor related costs of $98 million primarily due to higher commission expense and, to a lesser extent, a 6% increase in sales and marketing headcount. General and Administrative The following table presents our general and administrative expenses, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) General and administrative expenses $ 364 $ 461 $ 814 $ 871 General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues 6.6 % 6.7 % 7.3 % 6.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel and facilities related to our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations, and fees for professional services. Professional services are principally comprised of outside legal, audit, information technology consulting, and outsourcing services. General and administrative expenses increased $97 million from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in professional services of $69 million, the majority of which related to legal costs and consulting services. General and administrative expenses increased $57 million from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in professional services of $90 million, the majority of which related to legal costs and consulting services. This increase was partially offset by lower bad debt expense of $45 million recognized as a result of general improved economic conditions. 35 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation The following table presents our stock-based compensation, and stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Stock-based compensation $ 293 $ 309 $ 571 $ 600 Stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues 5.3 % 4.5 % 5.2 % 4.4 % Stock-based compensation increased $16 million and $29 million from the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 to the three and six months ended June 30, 2010. These increases were primarily due to additional stock awards issued to existing and new employees. The increase from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010 was also due to the recognition of a full quarter of modification charge in the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to a partial quarter in the three months ended March 31, 2009 related to our stock option exchange program completed in March 2009. We expect stock-based compensation to be approximately $1.2 billion in 2010 and $2.1 billion thereafter. These amounts do not include stock-based compensation related to stock awards that have been and may be granted to employees and directors subsequent to June 30, 2010 and stock awards that have been or may be granted to non-employees. In addition, to the extent forfeiture rates are different from what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be different from our expectations. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net increased $87 million from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income of $86 million due to an increase in our cash and investment balances and higher yields, as well as an increase in net realized gains on sales of marketable securities of $25 million, partially offset by an increase in net foreign exchange related costs of $22 million. Interest and other income (expense), net increased $98 million from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income of $116 million due to an increase in our cash and investment balances and higher yields, as well as an increase in net realized gains on sales of marketable securities of $18 million, partially offset by an increase in net foreign exchange related costs of $36 million. The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities that we recognized to interest and other income (expense), net are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration and the movement of the foreign exchange rates relative to the strike prices of the contracts as well as the volatility of the foreign exchange rates. As we expand our international business, we believe costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program may increase in dollar amount in the remainder of 2010 and future periods. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents our provision for income taxes, and effective tax rate for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Provision for income taxes $ 371 $ 594 $ 839 $ 1,145 Effective tax rate 20.0 % 24.4 % 22.4 % 23.2 % 36 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes increased from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010, primarily as a result of increases in federal and state income taxes, driven by higher taxable income year over year. Our effective tax rate increased from the three months ended June 30, 2009 to the three months ended June 30, 2010, primarily because we expect more of our annual earnings in 2010 compared to 2009 to be realized in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates. This is primarily due to more hedging gains recognized in one of our legal entities that is subject to a higher statutory tax rate. Our provision for income taxes increased from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010, primarily as a result of increases in federal and state income taxes, driven by higher taxable income year over year. Our effective tax rate increased from the six months ended June 30, 2009 to the six months ended June 30, 2010, primarily because we expect more of our annual earnings in 2010 compared to 2009 to be realized in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates largely due to more hedging gains recognized in one of our legal entities that is subject to a higher statutory tax rate. This increase was partially offset by recognition of less charges related to certain discrete items in the six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2009. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources In summary, our cash flows were as follows (dollars in millions): Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 2010 (unaudited) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,859 $ 4,669 Net cash used in investing activities (636 ) (3,285 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 46 (769 ) At June 30, 2010, we had $30.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, municipalities in the U.S., debt instruments issued by foreign governments, time deposits, money market and other overnight funds, including cash collateral received related to our securities lending program, mortgage-backed securities, and corporate securities. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion on the composition of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. At December 31, 2009 and June 30, 2010, we had unused letters of credit for approximately $101 million and $63 million. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products and services. In addition, we may make acquisitions or license products and technologies complementary to our business and may need to raise additional capital through future debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund any such acquisitions and licensing activities. Additional financing may not be available at all or on terms favorable to us. 37 Table of Contents On July 1, 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire ITA Software, a flight information software company, for $700 million in cash, subject to adjustments. The completion of this transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. We expect this transaction to close in 2010. On July 15, 2010, we also announced a debt financing program of up to $3 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes. In conjunction with this program, we established a $3 billion revolving credit facility at June 30, 2010. As of July 27, 2010, we had $900 million of commercial paper issued and outstanding with a weighted-average yield of 0.2% that mature at various dates through November 2010. No amounts under the program or the facility were outstanding as of June 30, 2010. Cash provided by operating activities consisted of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including amortization, depreciation, deferred income taxes, excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities, stock-based compensation expense, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2010 was $4,669 million and consisted of net income of $3,795 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1,240 million and cash used in working capital and other activities of $366 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $600 million of stock-based compensation expense, $530 million of depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, and $143 million of amortization of intangible and other assets, partially offset by $31 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities. In addition, the decrease in cash from changes in working capital activities primarily consisted of an increase of $197 million in accounts receivable due to the growth in fees billed to our advertisers, an increase of $191 million in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, a net decrease of $164 million of income taxes payable and deferred income taxes (which includes the same $31 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based awards included under adjustments for non-cash items), partially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $199 million. The decrease in income taxes payable and deferred income taxes was primarily a result of more estimated income taxes paid during the second quarter of 2010 for the year ending December 31 2010, partially offset by additional tax obligations accrued. The increase in accounts payable was primarily a result of the growth of our business. 38 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $3,859 million and consisted of net income of $2,907 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1,178 million, and cash used in working capital and other activities of $226 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $632 million of depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, $571 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $148 million of amortization of intangible and other assets, partially offset by $114 million of deferred income taxes and $36 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities. In addition, the decrease in cash from changes in working capital activities primarily consisted of a decrease of $281 million in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily as a result of employee bonuses for the year ended December 31, 2008 paid in the first quarter of 2009, a net decrease of $64 million of income taxes payable and deferred income taxes (which includes the same $36 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based awards included under adjustments for non-cash items), an increase of $42 million in accounts receivable due to the growth in fees billed to our advertisers, partially offset by a decrease of $88 million in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, an increase in accounts payable of $42 million, and to a lesser extent, by an increase in accrued revenue share of $19 million. The decrease in income taxes payable and deferred income taxes was primarily a result of more estimated income taxes paid during the first half of 2009 for the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by additional tax obligations accrued. As we expand our business internationally, we have offered payment terms to certain advertisers that are standard in their locales but longer than terms we would generally offer to our domestic advertisers. This may increase our working capital requirements and may have a negative effect on cash provided by our operating activities. Cash used in investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2010 of $3,285 million was primarily attributable to net purchases of marketable securities of $4,791 million, capital expenditures of $715 million, and cash consideration used in acquisitions and other investments of $649 million. This was partially offset by $2,870 million of cash collateral that we received in connection with our securities lending program. Cash used in investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2009 of $636 million was primarily attributable to capital expenditures of $402 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $201 million. Capital expenditures are mainly for the purchase of information technology assets. In order to manage expected increases in internet traffic, advertising transactions, and new products and services, and to support our overall global business expansion, we will make significant investments in data center operations, technology, corporate facilities, and information technology infrastructure in the remainder of 2010 and thereafter. However, the amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. 39 Table of Contents In addition, we expect to spend a significant amount of cash on acquisitions and other investments from time to time. In particular, we expect to increase the number of acquisitions we make in the remainder of 2010 compared to 2009. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, our technologies, and our product offerings. In connection with certain acquisitions, we are obligated to make additional cash payments if certain criteria are met. As of June 30, 2010, the remaining contingent obligation amount related to these acquisitions was approximately $20 million, which if the criteria are met, would be recorded as part of the purchase price. Because these contingent payments are based on the achievement of performance targets, actual payments may be substantially lower. Cash used in financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2010 of $769 million was primarily related to $801 million in stock repurchases pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in connection with our acquisitions of AdMob and On2 Technologies, Inc., partially offset by excess tax benefits of $31 million from stock-based award activities during the period which represented a portion of the $115 million reduction to income taxes payable that we recorded in the first half of 2010 related to the total direct tax benefit realized from the exercise, sale, or vesting of these awards. Cash provided by financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2009 of $46 million was primarily due to excess tax benefits of $36 million from stock-based award activities during the period which represents a portion of the $108 million reduction to income taxes payable that we recorded in the first half of 2009 related to the total direct tax benefit realized from the exercise, sale, or vesting of these awards, as well as net proceeds related to stock-based award activities of $10 million. Contractual Obligations We recorded long-term taxes payable of $122 million in the six months ended June 30, 2010 related to tax positions for which the timing of the ultimate resolution is uncertain. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome 40 Table of Contents of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest. Our effective tax rates have differed from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of foreign operations, state taxes, certain benefits realized related to stock option activities, and research and experimentation tax credits. Our effective tax rates were 20.0% and 22.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 24.4% and 23.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Stock-Based Compensation Our stock-based compensation expense is estimated at the grant date based on the awards fair value as calculated by the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option-pricing model and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various highly judgmental assumptions including expected volatility and option life. If any of the assumptions used in the BSM model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. To the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities We periodically review our marketable securities and our non-marketable equity securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value, the potential recovery period, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, the investment before recovery. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and take a corresponding charge to our Consolidated Statement of Income. Available Information Our website is located at www.google.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.google.com. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders (for the last two years). We also provide a link to the section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings. Our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, and Proxy Statements for the last two years are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Further, a copy of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file, and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 41 Table of Contents