ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among other things, statements regarding: the growth of our business and revenue; seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality, which are likely to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results; our plans to continue to invest in systems infrastructures, increase our hiring, adjust our compensation programs, and continue our current pace of acquisitions; the decline in our revenue growth rate; our expectation that growth in advertising revenues from our websites will continue to exceed that from our Google Network members websites, which will have a positive impact on our operating margins; our expectation that we will continue to pay most of the Google AdSense fees we receive from advertisers to our Google Network members; our expectation that we will continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads we deliver and to reduce the number of accidental clicks; fluctuations in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click; our belief that our foreign exchange risk management program will not fully offset the exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our expectation that our cost of revenues, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses will increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues; the fact that traffic acquisition costs may fluctuate in the future; the timing for the consummation of our acquisition of ITA Software; continued investments in international markets; our future stock-based compensation expenses; the increase of costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; the sufficiency of our sources of funding; our payment terms to certain advertisers, which may increase our working capital requirements; fluctuations in our capital expenditures; and our belief that the EPAs investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in particular, the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 23 Table of Contents Overview Google is a global technology leader focused on improving the ways people connect with information. Our innovations in web search and advertising have made our website a top internet property and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Our mission is to organize the worlds information and make it universally accessible and useful. We serve three primary constituencies: Users. We provide users with products and services that enable people to more quickly and easily find, create, and organize information that is useful to them. Advertisers. We provide advertisers with cost-effective ways to deliver online ads, as well as offline ads on television, to customers across Google sites and through the Google Network, which is the network of online and offline third parties that use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads with their search results and content. Google Network Members and Other Content Providers. We provide the online and offline members of our Google Network with our Google AdSense programs. These include programs through which we distribute our advertisers AdWords ads for display on the websites of our Google Network members, as well as programs to deliver ads on television broadcasts. We share most of the fees these ads generate with our Google Network members, thereby creating an important revenue stream for them. In addition, we have entered into arrangements with other content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content, and we may display ads next to or as part of this content on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites. We share most of the fees these ads generate with these content providers and our Google Network members, thereby creating an important revenue stream for these partners. How We Generate Revenue Advertising revenues made up 97% of our revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, 97% of our revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2010, and 96% of our revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. We derive most of our additional revenues from offering display advertising management services to advertisers, ad agencies, and publishers, as well as licensing our enterprise products, search solutions, and web search technology. Google AdWords is our automated online program that enables advertisers to place targeted text-based and display ads on our websites and our Google Network members websites. Display advertising typically includes static or animated images, as well as interactive audio or video media, such as the banner ads on the top or sides of many popular websites. Most of our AdWords customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on one of its ads. We also offer AdWords on a cost-per-impression basis that enables advertisers to pay us based on the number of times their ads appear on our websites and our Google Network members websites as specified by the advertiser. For advertisers using our AdWords cost-per-click pricing, we recognize as revenue the fees charged to advertisers each time a user clicks on one of the ads that appears next to the search results or content on our websites or our Google Network members websites. For advertisers using our AdWords cost-per-impression pricing, we recognize as revenue the fees charged to advertisers each time their ads are displayed on our websites or our Google Network members websites. Our AdWords agreements are generally terminable at any time by our advertisers. Google AdSense refers to the online programs through which we distribute our advertisers AdWords ads for display on the websites of our Google Network members, as well as programs to deliver ads on television. Our AdSense programs include AdSense for search and AdSense for content. AdSense for search is our online service for distributing relevant ads from our advertisers for display with search results on our Google Network members sites. To use AdSense for search, most of our AdSense for search partners add Google search functionality to their web pages in the form of customizable Google search boxes. When visitors of these websites search either the website or the internet using these customizable search boxes, we display relevant ads on the search results pages, targeted to match user search queries. Ads shown through AdSense for search are text ads. 24 Table of Contents AdSense for content is our online service for distributing ads from our advertisers that are relevant to content on our Google Network members websites. Under this program, we use automated technology to analyze the meaning of the content on the web page and serve relevant ads based on the meaning of such content. For example, a web page on an automotive blog that contains an entry about vintage cars might display ads for vintage car parts or vintage car shows. These ads are displayed in spaces that our AdSense for content partners have set aside on their websites. AdSense for content allows a variety of ad types to be shown, including text ads, image ads, Google Video Ads, link units (which are sets of clickable links to topic pages related to page content), themed units (which are regular text ads with graphic treatments that change seasonally and by geography), and gadget ads (which are customized mini-sites that run as ads on AdSense publisher websites). For our online AdSense program, our advertisers pay us a fee each time a user clicks on one of our advertisers ads displayed on our Google Network members websites or, for those advertisers who choose our cost-per-impression pricing, as their ads are displayed. To date, we have paid most of these advertiser fees to our Google Network members, and we expect to continue doing so for the foreseeable future. We recognize these advertiser fees as revenue and the portion of the advertiser fee we pay to our Google Network members as traffic acquisition costs under cost of revenues. Google Network members do not pay any fees associated with the use of our AdSense program on their websites. Our agreements with Google Network members consist largely of uniform online click-wrap agreements that members enter into by interacting with our registration websites. The standard agreements have no stated term and are terminable at will. Agreements with our larger members are individually negotiated. Both the standard agreements and the negotiated agreements contain provisions requiring us to share with the Google Network member most of the advertiser fees generated by users clicking on ads on the Google Network members website or, for advertisers who choose our cost-per-impression pricing, as the ads are displayed on the Google Network members website. For example, under our standard agreements, we pay 51% and 68% of the fees collected from advertisers to our Google Network members in AdSense for search and AdSense for content, respectively. Google TV Ads enable advertisers, operators, and programmers to buy, schedule, deliver, and measure ads on television. We recognize as revenue the fees charged to advertisers each time an ad is displayed on television. We also offer display advertising management services such as media planning, buying, implementation, and measurement tools for advertisers and agencies and forecasting and reporting tools for publishers. We recognize the related fees as other revenues in the period advertising impressions are delivered. In January 2010, we launched, and in July 2010, we discontinued, our direct-to-consumer web store channel of distributing our Nexus One mobile phone. We had recognized fees derived from the sale of these phones as other revenues in the period in which they were delivered. We do not expect to recognize any additional revenue associated with the sale of these phones in the future. We have entered into arrangements with certain content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content. Our agreements with content providers are typically standard agreements with no stated term and are terminable at will. Agreements with our larger members are individually negotiated. Both the standard agreements and the negotiated agreements contain provisions requiring us to pay the content providers for the content we license. In a number of these arrangements, we display ads on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites from which the content is viewed and share most of the fees these ads generate with the content providers and Google Network members. We recognize these advertiser fees as revenue. We recognize the portion of the advertiser fees we pay to our content providers as content acquisition costs under cost of revenues and the portion we pay to our Google Network members as traffic acquisition costs. We believe the factors that influence the success of our advertising programs include the following: The relevance, objectivity, and quality of our search results and the relevance and quality of ads displayed with each search results page. The number of searches initiated at our websites and our Google Network members websites and the underlying purpose of these searches (for instance, whether they are for academic research, to find a news article, or to find a product or service). The number and prominence of ads displayed on our websites and our Google Network members websites. 25 Table of Contents The number of visits to, and the content of, our Google Network members websites and certain of our websites and the relevance and quality of the ads we display next to this content. The advertisers return on investment from advertising campaigns on our websites or our Google Network members websites compared to other forms of advertising. The total advertising spending budgets of each advertiser. The number of advertisers and the breadth of items advertised. The amount we ultimately pay our Google Network members, distribution partners, and our content providers for traffic, access points, and content, compared to the amount of revenues we generate. Our ability to increase searches on our websites and our Google Network members websites via new ad formats on devices other than personal computers, including mobile devices. Trends in Our Business Our business has grown rapidly since inception, resulting in substantially increased revenues, and we expect that our business will continue to grow. However, our revenue growth rate has generally declined over time, and we expect it will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition, the difficulty of maintaining growth rates as our revenues increase to higher levels, and increasing maturity of the online advertising market in certain countries. In addition, while general economic conditions have recently improved, the robustness and pace of the global economic recovery remain uncertain, which could negatively affect our revenue growth rate. However, we plan to continue to invest aggressively in our core areas of strategic focus. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to our users, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and our Google Network members websites. These steps include not displaying ads that generate low click-through rates or that send users to irrelevant or otherwise low quality sites and terminating our relationships with those Google Network members whose websites do not meet our quality requirements. We may also continue to take steps to reduce the number of accidental clicks by our users. These steps could negatively affect the growth rate of our revenues. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenues, as well as aggregate paid click and average cost-per-click growth rates. The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our Google Network members websites through our AdSense program is significantly lower than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from ads placed on our websites because most of the advertiser fees from ads served on Google Network members websites are shared with our Google Network members. For the past five years, growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from our Google Network members websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future, although the relative rate of growth in revenues from our websites compared to the rate of growth in revenues from our Google Network members websites may vary over time. We continue to invest in systems infrastructures, increase our hiring, and adjust our compensation programs as required to manage our growth and develop and promote our products and services, and this may cause our operating margins to decrease. Acquisitions will also remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect our current pace of acquisitions to continue. Our full-time employee headcount was 19,665 at September 30, 2009 and 23,331 at September 30, 2010. We expect our cost of revenues will increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods, primarily as a result of forecasted increases in traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, credit card and other transaction fees, content acquisition costs, and other costs. In particular, traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues may increase in the future if we are unable to continue to improve the monetization or generation of revenues from traffic on our websites and our Google Network members websites. 26 Table of Contents As we expand our advertising programs and other products to international markets, we continue to increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For example, in the third quarter of 2010, the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies (primarily the Euro and the British pound) had an unfavorable impact on our revenues as compared to the third quarter of 2009. We have a foreign exchange risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. However, this program will not fully offset the effect of fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. Results of Operations The following table presents our historical operating results as a percentage of our revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 37.4 35.0 37.9 35.8 Research and development 12.7 13.6 12.4 13.0 Sales and marketing 8.4 9.1 8.3 9.1 General and administrative 6.6 7.3 7.1 6.7 Total costs and expenses 65.1 65.0 65.7 64.6 Income from operations 34.9 35.0 34.3 35.4 Interest and other income (expense), net (0.1 ) 2.2 (0.1 ) 1.3 Income before income taxes 34.8 37.2 34.2 36.7 Provision for income taxes 7.2 7.5 7.4 8.1 Net income 27.6 % 29.7 % 26.8 % 28.6 % Revenues The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Advertising revenues: Google websites $ 3,956 $ 4,833 $ 11,301 $ 13,772 Google Network websites 1,801 2,199 5,123 6,297 Total advertising revenues 5,757 7,032 16,424 20,069 Other revenues 188 254 553 812 Revenues $ 5,945 $ 7,286 $ 16,977 $ 20,881 The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Advertising revenues: Google websites 67 % 67 % 67 % 66 % Google Network websites 30 30 30 30 Total advertising revenues 97 97 97 96 Google websites as % of advertising revenues 69 69 69 69 Google Network websites as % of advertising revenues 31 31 31 31 Other revenues 3 % 3 % 3 % 4 % 27 Table of Contents The increase in our revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010 resulted primarily from an increase in advertising revenues generated by Google websites and Google Network members websites. The increase in our revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010 resulted primarily from an increase in advertising revenues generated by Google websites and Google Network members websites and, to a lesser extent, an increase in other revenues primarily as a result of the launch of our mobile phone business in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in advertising revenue for Google websites and Google Network members websites from the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 resulted primarily from an increase in the number of paid clicks through our advertising programs and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The increase in the number of paid clicks generated through our advertising programs was due to an increase in aggregate traffic, certain monetization improvements including new ad formats, and the continued global expansion of our products, and our advertiser and user base, as well as an increase in the number of Google Network members. The increase in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers was primarily driven by the increased spending from advertisers, partially offset by the changes in geographical mix due to traffic growth in emerging markets, where the average cost-per-click is typically lower, compared to more mature markets. Improvements in our ability to ultimately monetize increased traffic primarily relate to enhancing the end user experience, including providing end users with ads that are more relevant to their search queries or to the content on the Google Network members websites they visit. For instance, these improvements include enabling previously promoted high quality ads to be shown on subsequent pages, adding merchant ratings information to improve users ability to evaluate ads, providing end users with multiple ad site links for certain web search ad results, reducing the minimum cost-per-click which results in the display of more relevant ads, and changing the clickable area around our AdSense for content text-based ads to only the title and URL (uniform resource locator) to reduce the number of accidental clicks. Aggregate paid clicks on Google websites and Google Network members websites increased approximately 16% from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 16% from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Average cost-per-click on Google websites and Google Network members websites increased approximately 3% from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 5% from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The rate of change in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click, and their correlation with the rate of change in revenues, has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future because of various factors, including the revenue growth rates on our websites compared to those of our Google Network members, advertiser competition for keywords, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, seasonality, the fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs, and general economic conditions. In addition, traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals also contributes to these fluctuations. Changes in aggregate paid clicks and average cost-per-click may not be indicative of our performance or advertiser experiences in any specific geographic market, vertical, or industry. We believe that the increase in the number of paid clicks on Google websites and Google Network members websites is substantially the result of our commitment to improving the relevance and quality of both our search results and the advertisements displayed, which we believe results in a better user experience, which in turn results in more searches, advertisers, and Google Network members and other partners. Revenues by Geography The following table presents our domestic and international revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) United States 47 % 48 % 47 % 48 % United Kingdom 13 % 12 % 13 % 12 % Rest of the world 40 % 40 % 40 % 40 % 28 Table of Contents The decline in revenues from the United Kingdom as a percentage of consolidated revenues from the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 resulted primarily from a less robust economic recovery relative to the United States and rest of the world. The growth in revenues from the United States as a percentage of consolidated revenues from the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2010 resulted largely from the recovery of certain key verticals such as retail, travel, finance, and insurance. The general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies (primarily the Euro and the British pound) from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010 had an unfavorable impact on our international revenues. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant in these periods, our revenues from the United Kingdom would have been approximately $50 million, or 6%, higher, and our revenues from the rest of the world would have been approximately $119 million, or 4%, higher in the three months ended September 30, 2010. This is before consideration of hedging gains of $25 million and $14 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the three months ended September 30, 2009, and hedging gains of $11 million and $78 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies (primarily the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real, and the Japanese yen) from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010 had a favorable impact on our international revenues. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant in these periods, our revenues from the United Kingdom would have been $16 million, or 1%, lower and our revenues from the rest of the world would have been approximately $81 million, or 1%, lower in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This is before consideration of hedging gains of $174 million and $143 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and hedging gains of $41 million and $137 million recognized to revenues from the United Kingdom and the rest of the world in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Although we expect to continue to make investments in international markets, they may not result in an increase in our international revenues as a percentage of total revenues in the remainder of 2010 or thereafter. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information about geographic areas. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs. Traffic acquisition costs consist of amounts ultimately paid to our Google Network members under AdSense arrangements and to certain other partners (our distribution partners) who distribute our toolbar and other products (collectively referred to as access points) or otherwise direct search queries to our website (collectively referred to as distribution arrangements). These amounts are primarily based on the revenue share arrangements with our Google Network members and distribution partners. Certain distribution arrangements require us to pay our partners based on a fee per access point delivered and not exclusivelyor at allbased on revenue share. The fees are non-refundable. Further, these arrangements are terminable at will, although under the terms of certain contracts, we or our distribution partners may be subject to penalties in the event of early termination. We recognize fees under these arrangements over the estimated useful lives of the access points (approximately two years) to the extent we can reasonably estimate those lives and they are longer than one year, or based on any contractual revenue share, if greater. Otherwise, we expense the fees as incurred. The estimated useful life of the access points is based on the historical average period of time they generate traffic and revenues. Cost of revenues also includes the expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, including depreciation, labor, energy and bandwidth costs, content acquisition costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions. We have entered into arrangements with certain content providers under which we distribute or license their video and other content. In a number of these arrangements we display ads on the pages of our websites and our Google Network members websites from which the content is viewed and share most of the fees these ads generate with the content providers and the Google Network members. 29 Table of Contents The following table presents our cost of revenues, and cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and our traffic acquisition costs, and traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues, for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Cost of revenues $ 2,226 $ 2,552 $ 6,436 $ 7,471 Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues 37.4 % 35.0 % 37.9 % 35.8 % Traffic acquisition costs related to AdSense arrangements $ 1,331 $ 1,520 $ 3,795 $ 4,426 Traffic acquisition costs related to distribution arrangements 228 285 654 822 Traffic acquisition costs $ 1,559 $ 1,805 $ 4,449 $ 5,248 Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues 27.1 % 25.7 % 27.1 % 26.1 % Cost of revenues increased $326 million from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $189 million primarily resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program. The increase was also related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $57 million from our distribution arrangements as a result of more traffic directed to our websites, as well as more distribution fees paid. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily due to expiration of an AdSense arrangement under which we paid guaranteed minimum revenue share and more revenues realized from Google Network members to whom we paid less revenue share. In addition, there was an increase in content acquisition costs of $51 million primarily related to content displayed on YouTube. Cost of revenues increased $1,035 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $631 million primarily resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program. The increase was also related to an increase in traffic acquisition costs of $168 million from our distribution arrangements as a result of more traffic directed to our websites, as well as more distribution fees paid. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily due to expiration of an AdSense arrangement under which we paid guaranteed minimum revenue share and more revenues realized from Google Network members to whom we paid less revenue share. In addition, there was an increase in mobile phone costs of $92 million and an increase in content acquisition costs of $90 million primarily related to content displayed on YouTube. We expect cost of revenues will increase in dollar amount and may increase as a percentage of revenues in the remainder of 2010 and in future periods, primarily as a result of forecasted increases in traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, credit card and other transaction fees, content acquisition costs, and other costs. Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues may fluctuate in the future based on a number of factors, including the following: The relative growth rates of revenues from our websites and from our Google Network members websites. Whether we are able to enter into more AdSense arrangements that provide for lower revenue share obligations or whether increased competition for arrangements with existing and potential Google Network members results in less favorable revenue share arrangements. Whether we are able to continue to improve the monetization of traffic on our websites and our Google Network members websites. The relative growth rates of expenses associated with distribution arrangements and the related revenues generated, including whether we share with certain existing and new distribution partners proportionately more of the aggregate advertising fees that we earn from paid clicks derived from search queries these partners direct to our websites. 30 Table of Contents Research and Development The following table presents our research and development expenses, and research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Research and development expenses $ 758 $ 994 $2,107 $ 2,711 Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues 12.7 % 13.6 % 12.4% 13.0 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel responsible for the research and development of new and existing products and services. We expense research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses increased $236 million from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in labor related costs of $137 million primarily as a result of a 26% increase in research and development headcount, including headcount from acquisitions. In addition, there was an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $48 million and an increase in temporary services expense of $20 million. Research and development expenses increased $604 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in labor related costs of $368 million primarily as a result of a 26% increase in headcount, including headcount from acquisitions. In addition, there was an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $91 million, an increase in depreciation and related expense of $59 million, and an increase in temporary services expense of $45 million. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in dollar amount and may increase as a percentage of revenues in the remainder of 2010 and future periods because we expect to continue to invest in building the necessary employee and systems infrastructures required to support the development of new, and improve existing, products and services. Sales and Marketing The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses, and sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Sales and marketing expenses $ 498 $ 661 $ 1,401 $ 1,897 Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues 8.4 % 9.1 % 8.3 % 9.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel engaged in customer service, sales, and sales support functions, as well as advertising and promotional expenditures. Sales and marketing expenses increased $163 million from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $70 million. In addition, there was an increase in labor related costs of $55 million primarily due to a 14% increase in sales and marketing headcount. Sales and marketing expenses increased $496 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $230 million. In addition, there was an increase in labor related costs of $153 million primarily due to a 14% increase in sales and marketing headcount and higher commission expense. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may increase as a percentage of revenues in the remainder of 2010 and future periods as we expand our business on a worldwide basis. 31 Table of Contents General and Administrative The following table presents our general and administrative expenses, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) General and administrative expenses $ 389 $ 532 $ 1,202 $ 1,403 General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues 6.6 % 7.3 % 7.1 % 6.7 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel and facilities related to our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations, and fees for professional services. Professional services are principally comprised of outside legal, audit, information technology consulting, and outsourcing services. General and administrative expenses increased $143 million from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in charitable contributions of $53 million, an increase in professional services of $32 million, the majority of which related to legal costs and consulting services, as well as an increase in labor and facilities related costs of $18 million primarily due to a 9% increase in general and administrative headcount. General and administrative expenses increased $201 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in professional services of $121 million, the majority of which related to legal costs and consulting services. In addition, there was an increase in charitable contributions of $58 million. As we expand our business and incur additional expenses, we believe general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may increase as a percentage of revenues in the remainder of 2010 and future periods. Stock-Based Compensation The following table presents our stock-based compensation, and stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Stock-based compensation $ 318 $ 380 $888 $ 980 Stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues 5.3 % 5.2 % 5.2% 4.7 % Stock-based compensation increased $62 million and $92 million from the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010. These increases were primarily due to additional stock awards issued to existing and new employees. We estimate stock-based compensation to be approximately $1.4 billion in 2010 and $3.3 billion thereafter. This estimate does not include expenses to be recognized related to employee stock awards that are granted after September 30, 2010 or non-employee stock awards that have been or may be granted. In addition, to the extent forfeiture rates are different from what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be different from our expectations. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net increased $174 million from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income of $125 million due to an increase in our cash and investment balances and higher yields, as well as an increase in net realized gains on sales of marketable securities of $43 million. 32 Table of Contents Interest and other income (expense), net increased $274 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income of $240 million due to an increase in our cash and investment balances and higher yields, as well as an increase in net realized gains on sales of marketable securities of $61 million, partially offset by an increase in net foreign exchange related costs of $32 million. The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities that we recognized to interest and other income (expense), net are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration and the movement of the foreign exchange rates relative to the strike prices of the contracts, as well as the volatility of the foreign exchange rates. As we expand our international business, we believe costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program may increase in dollar amount in the remainder of 2010 and future periods. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents our provision for income taxes, and effective tax rate for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 2009 2010 (unaudited) Provision for income taxes $ 428 $ 547 $ 1,266 $ 1,692 Effective tax rate 20.7 % 20.2 % 21.8 % 22.1 % Our provision for income taxes increased from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010, primarily as a result of increases in federal and state income taxes, driven by higher taxable income year over year. Our effective tax rate decreased from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010, primarily because we released certain tax reserves as a result of the settlement of our 2005 and 2006 tax audits in the three months ended September 30, 2010, which were more than the other discrete benefits we recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2009. Our provision for income taxes increased from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010, primarily as a result of increases in federal and state income taxes, driven by higher taxable income year over year. Our effective tax rate increased from the nine months ended September 30, 2009 to the nine months ended September 30, 2010, primarily because we expect more of our annual earnings in 2010 compared to 2009 to be realized in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources In summary, our cash flows were as follows (dollars in millions): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 2010 (unaudited) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,585 $ 7,555 Net cash used in investing activities (3,246 ) (7,831 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 75 1,298 33 Table of Contents At September 30, 2010, we had $33.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, municipalities in the U.S., debt instruments issued by foreign governments, time deposits, money market and other funds, including cash collateral received related to our securities lending program, mortgage-backed securities, and corporate securities. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion on the composition of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. At December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2010, we had unused letters of credit for approximately $101 million and $63 million. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products and services. In addition, we may make acquisitions or license products and technologies complementary to our business and may need to raise additional capital through future debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund any such acquisitions and licensing activities. Additional financing may not be available at all or on terms favorable to us. On July 1, 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire ITA Software, a privately-held flight information software company, for $700 million in cash, subject to adjustments. The completion of this transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. We expect this transaction to close in the first half of 2011. On July 15, 2010, we announced a debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from the commercial paper program are used for general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2010, we had $2.1 billion of commercial paper outstanding recorded as short-term debt, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.3% that matures at various dates through September 2011. In conjunction with this program, we established a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring on June 30, 2013. Interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of September 30, 2010, we were in compliance with the financial covenant in the credit facility. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of September 30, 2010. Cash provided by operating activities consisted of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including amortization, depreciation, deferred income taxes, excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities, stock-based compensation expense, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $7,555 million and consisted of net income of $5,962 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1,968 million and cash used in working capital and other activities of $375 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $980 million of stock-based compensation expense, $787 million of depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, and $228 million of amortization of intangibles and other assets, partially offset by $43 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities. In addition, the decrease in cash from changes in working capital activities primarily consisted of an increase of $456 million in accounts receivable due to the growth in fees billed to our advertisers, an increase of $355 million in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, a net decrease of $295 million of income taxes payable and deferred income taxes, which includes the same $43 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based awards included under adjustments for non-cash items, partially offset by an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $316 million, an increase in accounts payable of $314 million and, to a lesser extent, an increase in accrued revenue share of $69 million. The net decrease in income taxes payable and deferred income taxes was primarily attributed to the release of certain tax reserves as a result of the settlement of our tax audits for our 2005 and 2006 tax years. Cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 was $6,585 million and consisted of net income of $4,546 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1,669 million and cash provided by working capital and other activities of $370 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $943 million of depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, $888 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $216 million of amortization of intangibles and other assets, partially offset by $288 million of deferred income taxes and $64 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities. In addition, the increase in cash from changes in working capital activities primarily consisted of a decrease of $313 million in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, a net increase in income taxes payable and deferred income taxes of $97 million, which includes the same $64 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based awards included under adjustments for non-cash items, and an increase of $57 million in accrued revenue share primarily due to the increase in our revenues, partially offset by an increase of $127 million in accounts receivable due to the growth in fees billed to our advertisers. The increase in income taxes payable and deferred income taxes was primarily a result of additional tax obligations accrued, partially offset by more estimated income taxes paid during the nine months ended September 30, 2009 for the year ended December 31, 2009. 34 Table of Contents As we expand our business internationally, we have offered payment terms to certain advertisers that are standard in their locales but longer than terms we would generally offer to our domestic advertisers. This may increase our working capital requirements and may have a negative effect on cash provided by our operating activities. Cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 of $7,831 million was primarily attributable to net purchases of marketable securities of $7,220 million, capital expenditures of $1,473 million, and cash consideration used in acquisitions and other investments of $859 million. Also, in connection with our securities lending program, we received $2,861 million of cash collateral and invested $875 million in reverse repurchase agreements. Cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 of $3,246 million was attributable to net purchases of marketable securities of $2,571 million and capital expenditures of $589 million. Capital expenditures are mainly for the purchase of information technology assets. In order to manage expected increases in internet traffic, advertising transactions, and new products and services, and to support our overall global business expansion, we will make significant investments in data center operations, technology, corporate facilities, and information technology infrastructure in the remainder of 2010 and thereafter. However, the amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. In addition, we expect to spend a significant amount of cash on acquisitions and other investments from time to time. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, our technologies, and our product offerings. Cash provided by financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 of $1,298 million was primarily driven by $2,121 million of short term-debt issued under our commercial paper program. This was partially offset by $801 million in stock repurchases pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans in connection with our acquisitions of AdMob, Inc. and On2 Technologies, Inc. Cash provided by financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 of $75 million was primarily due to excess tax benefits of $64 million from stock-based award activities during the period which represented a portion of the $164 million reduction to income taxes payable that we recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 related to the total direct tax benefit realized from the exercise, sale, or vesting of these awards, as well as net proceeds related to stock-based award activities of $11 million. Contractual Obligations We recorded long-term taxes payable of $180 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 related to tax positions for which the timing of the ultimate resolution is uncertain. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In addition, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. 35 Table of Contents Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest. Our effective tax rates have differed from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of foreign operations, state taxes, certain benefits realized related to stock option activities, and research and experimentation tax credits. Our effective tax rates were 20.7% and 21.8% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 20.2% and 22.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Stock-Based Compensation Our stock-based compensation expense is estimated at the grant date based on the awards fair value as calculated by the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option-pricing model and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various highly judgmental assumptions including expected volatility and option life. If any of the assumptions used in the BSM model changes significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. To the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities We periodically review our marketable securities and our non-marketable equity securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value, the potential recovery period, and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, the investment before recovery. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and take a corresponding charge to our Consolidated Statement of Income. Available Information Our website is located at www.google.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.google.com. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders for the last two years. Our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, and Proxy Statements for the last two years are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. We also provide a link to the section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings. Further, a copy of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 36 Table of Contents