Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "projects," "will be," "will continue," "may," "could," "will likely result," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, the risks discussed in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. As used herein, "Alphabet," "the company," "we," "us," "our," and similar terms include Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. "Alphabet," "Google," and other trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. This report contains additional trade names and trademarks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies' trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. 2 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have. Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main internet products in areas such as self-driving cars, life sciences, internet access and TV services. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. Access and technology for everyone The Internet is one of the worlds most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. So whether you're a child in a rural village or a professor at an elite university, you can access the same information. We are helping people get online by tailoring digital experiences to the needs of emerging markets. For instance, our digital payments app in India, now called Google Pay, helps tens of millions of people and businesses easily pay with just a few taps. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns. Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, Loon announced that it will bring its balloon-powered internet to regions of central Kenya, starting in 2019. Moonshots Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. The power of machine learning Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to ask the Google Assistant for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events in Google Photos. Our advertising tools also use machine learning to help marketers find the right audience, deliver the right creative, and optimize their campaigns through better auto-bidding and measurement tools. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, assists delivery drones in determining whether a location is safe for drop off, and can also help clinicians more accurately detect sight-threatening eye diseases. Google Serving our users We have always been a company committed to building products that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation 3 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. As the majority of Alphabets big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that were able to have on Googles many extraordinary opportunities. Googles mission to organize the worlds information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. You can also type or talk with the Google Assistant in a conversational way across multiple devices like phones, speakers, headphones, televisions and more. And with Google Lens, you can use your phones camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos. This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content. Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. Thats why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like Pixel 3 phones and the Google Home Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run. Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We have continued to enhance these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite, to our customers. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Googles highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools -- which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Hangouts, and more -- are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of todays great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently. Key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to keeping their data safe online. As the Internet evolves, we continue to invest in our industry-leading security technologies and privacy tools. How we make money The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device theyre using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. Perf ormance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our platforms to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades. Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through v ideos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 4 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective. We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content. Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas. For instance, we generate revenue when users purchase digital content like apps, movies and music through Google Play or when they purchase our Made by Google hardware devices. Businesses also pay for the use of our cloud services like Google Cloud Platform and G Suite. Other Bets Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabets Other Bets are emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the research and development phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. To do this, we make sure we have a strong CEO to run each company while also rigorously handling capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. We continue to build these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. Other Bets primarily generate revenues from internet and TV services and licensing and R&D services. Competition Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from: General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex. Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google. Social networks, such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline. Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform. Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix. We compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users in businesses that are further afield from our advertising business. We face competition from: Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Apple. Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for our advertising-related businesses, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining: 5 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security and availability of our products and services. Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. Culture and Employees We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we aim to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels. Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2018 , we had 98,771 full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Other Items We believe that climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. We have established a climate change strategy based on four dimensions: matching 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with purchases of renewable energy; understanding the effect of climate change on the resiliency of our core business operations; being a vocal advocate for greening electrical grids worldwide; and empowering everyonebusinesses, governments, nonprofit organizations, communities, and individualsto use Google technology to help create a more sustainable and resource-efficient world. Google's approach to climate change and our broader sustainability efforts are provided in our annual sustainability reports. Available Information Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 6 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use. We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. They can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in hiring talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Our competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us. In addition, new products and services, including those that incorporate or utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning, can raise new or exacerbate existing ethical, technological, legal, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our operating results may also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, and content providers; are not appropriately timed with market opportunities; or are not effectively brought to market. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer our users and/or customers experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, customers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our advertising business. We generated over 85% of total revenues from advertising in 2018 . Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. For example, changes to our data privacy practices, as well as changes to third-party advertising policies or practices may affect the type of ads and/or manner of advertising that we are able to provide which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, our reputation could be affected, we could see a decrease in revenue from advertisers and/or experience other adverse effects to our business. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative effect on user activity and the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and advertising business. We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business. We and other companies in the technology industry have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny recently. For instance, various regulatory agencies are reviewing aspects of our search and other businesses. This can lead to increased scrutiny from other regulators and legislators, that may affect our reputation, brand and third-party 7 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. relationships. Such reviews have and may in the future also result in substantial regulatory fines, changes to our business practices and other penalties, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We continue to cooperate with regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business. Changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may cause us to change our business practices. Further, our expansion into a variety of new fields also raises a number of new regulatory issues. These factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations in material ways. Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The creation of Alphabet as a holding company in 2015 and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users. Our investments in Google and Other Bets span a wide range of industries. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from our advertising and related business, use of alternative investment, governance or compensation structures, the fact that such offerings or strategies may not be commercially viable for an indefinite amount of time or at all, or may not result in adequate return of capital on our investments; and unidentified issues may not be discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. The Internet is accessed through a variety of platforms and form factors that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices and modalities, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices and modalities may make the use of our products and services or the generation of advertising revenue through such devices more difficult (or just different), and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compatible or compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we may fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers continue to exist in a dynamic, multi-platform environment. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. Our revenue growth rate could decline and/or vary over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields. Within our advertising business, changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels or if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, among other factors. In addition to a decline in our revenue growth rate, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields, including through products and services such as Google Cloud, Google Play, and hardware products where margins have generally been lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business, including within advertising where changes such as device mix and property mix can affect margin. The margin we earn on 8 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease in the future if we pay a larger percentage of advertising fees to them. We may also pay increased TAC to our distribution partners due to a number of factors. Additionally, our spend to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or an increased investment in our innovation efforts across the Company (within Google as well as our Other Bets businesses) may affect our operating margins. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results: Our ability to continue to attract and retain users and customers to our products and services. Our ability to attract user and/or customer adoption of and generate significant revenues from new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources. Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices. Revenue fluctuations in our advertising business caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix. The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program. The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure. Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results. The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies. Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions. The seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate. Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may make our products and services less useful, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. For example, our products and services are closely scrutinized by competition authorities around the world, which may limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services. Current and new patent laws may also affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Similarly, the Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (DSM) in Europe, if passed in its proposed form, will increase the liability of large hosted platforms with respect to content uploaded by their users. It will also create a new property right in news publications that will limit the ability of online services to interact with or present such content. In addition to the DSM, other changes to copyright laws being considered elsewhere, will, if passed, increase costs and require companies, including us, to change or cease offering certain existing services. Additionally, as the focus on data privacy and security increases globally, we are and will 9 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. continue to be subject to various and evolving laws. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. Other recently passed laws and/or certain court decisions that could harm our business include, among others: We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us. Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 13, 2014 on the right to be forgotten, which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens. Court decisions that require Google to suppress content not just in the jurisdiction of the issuing court, but for all of our users worldwide, including locations where the content at issue is lawful. The Supreme Court of Canada issued such a decision against Google in June 2017, and others could treat its decision as persuasive. For instance, with respect to the right to be forgotten, a follow-up case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which could result in an order to apply delisting actions under the right to be forgotten worldwide. Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors. Various laws with regard to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 that comes into effect in January of 2020, and gives new data privacy rights to California residents and regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices. Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. Privacy laws, which could be interpreted broadly thereby limiting product offerings and/or increasing costs. Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties. We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware as well as our Google Cloud offerings, we may also be subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental concerns or if users or customers experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted and may in the future result in additional substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in 10 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or corrections, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our products and services violates U.S. and international law. We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, which may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Bugs or defects in our products and services have occurred and may occur in the future, or our security measures could be breached, resulting in the improper use and/or disclosure of user data, and our services and systems are subject to attacks that could degrade or deny the ability of users and customers to access, or rely on information received about, our products and services. As a consequence, our products and services may be perceived as being insecure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal, reputational, and financial exposure. From time to time, concerns are expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users, customers, and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as users and customers expectations regarding privacy and their data changes. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users and customers proprietary information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems failures, compromises of our security, failure to abide by our privacy policies, inadvertent disclosure that results in the release of our users data, or in our or our users inability to access such data, could result in government investigations and other liability, legislation or regulation, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain state-of-the-art security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse or security vulnerabilities or breaches. We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. Our security measures may in the future be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Such breach or other unauthorized access, increased government surveillance, or attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users or customers data could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, become more sophisticated, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Cyber attacks could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information and result in such information being disclosed to others and becoming less valuable, which could negatively affect our business. If an actual or perceived breach of our security 11 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers. While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not respond quickly enough, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident, among other issues. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to complex and rapidly evolving U.S. and international laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. Companies are under increased regulatory scrutiny relating to data privacy and security. Authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that encryption of users data does not hinder law enforcement agencies access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), became effective in the European Union (EU) beginning on May 25, 2018, and applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. The GDPR subjects us to a range of new compliance obligations. Ensuring compliance with the GDPR is an ongoing commitment which involves substantial costs, and it is possible that despite our efforts, governmental authorities or third parties will assert that our business practices fail to comply. We have been and may in the future be, subject to lawsuits alleging violations of the GDPR. If our operations are found to be in violation of the GDPRs requirements, we may be required to change our business practices and/or be subject to significant civil penalties, business disruption, and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to the higher of 4% of annual worldwide revenues or 20 million. Fines of up to the higher of 2% of annual worldwide revenues or 10 million can be levied for other specified violations. In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Many companies, in particular those in internet, technology and media own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained by bringing claims against us, whether such claims are meritorious or not. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies. We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to 12 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and/or indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims brought against us. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, including our product and service offerings, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand as well as affect our ability to compete. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word Google could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word search. Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, however it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the United States, may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word Google to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Effecting these strategic transactions could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include, among others: Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology. Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company. 13 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions. Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms. Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction. In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire. Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results. Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of objectionable content on our services or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be false or misleading. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in our brands, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in peoples everyday lives. We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely affect our financial results and prospects. We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. These manufacturing and supply chain risks could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts, and third party distributors, including cellular network carriers. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. 14 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. We may experience supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively affect our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant hardware supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions. We may enter into long term contracts that commit us to significant terms and conditions of supply. We may be liable for material and product that is not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. The products and services we sell or offer may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our users and/or customers expectations or our products or services are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively affected. We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could affect the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties. Web spam, including content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. Web spam refers to websites that violate or attempt to violate our guidelines or that otherwise seek to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Web spam may also affect the quality of content posted on our platforms and may manipulate them to display false, misleading or undesirable content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms. We also face other challenges from web spam such as low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. We, like others in the industry, face other violations of our guidelines, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues for themselves or others, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to detect and prevent invalid traffic, including attempts by bad actors to generate income fraudulently, we may be unable to adequately detect and prevent such abuses in the future. If we are subject to an increasing number of web spam, including content farms or other violations of our guidelines, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites or their use of our platforms, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results. Interruption, interference with or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference or interruption from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems. Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2018 . In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following: Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S. Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs. Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud. Evolving foreign laws and legal systems, including those that may occur as a result of the United Kingdom's potential withdrawal from the European Union ("Brexit"). Brexit may adversely affect global economic and market conditions and could contribute to volatility in the foreign exchange markets, which we may be unable to effectively manage through our foreign exchange risk management program. Brexit may also adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges, in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate. Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent. Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions. Changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may also harm our business, and compliance with complex international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others, internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 16 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. They also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively affect our future success. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by Internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in the United States the Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules effective June 11, 2018, which could lead internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. New and existing technologies could affect our ability to customize ads and/or could block ads online, which would harm our business. Technologies have been developed to make customizable ads more difficult or to block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the core functionality of third-party digital advertising. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments. Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Market values of these investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates that replace LIBOR, the effect of new or changing regulations, or other factors. Due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01 Financial Instruments; Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities in January 2018, we adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer and impairment. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). 17 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, examples include transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $984.66 per share to $1,285.50 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $976.21 to $1,268.32 per share. In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments. Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates. Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings. Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations. Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy. The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale. Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees). Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock. The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another. Any share repurchase program. In addition, the stock market in general, which can be affected by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. 18 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance. We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that any share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. In 2016 and 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion and $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. The 2016 authorization was completed in 2018. As of December 31, 2018 , $1.7 billion remains available for repurchase. In January 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $12.5 billion of our Class C capital stock. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Our share repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2018, Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and Eric E. Schmidt beneficially owned approximately 92.8% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry, Sergey and Erics current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in Alphabets certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric. Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 19 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Risk Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries. Alphabet is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabets most significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Google, that are each separate and distinct legal entities. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet. Our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet and therefore, our ability to meet our obligations may be adversely affected by such restrictions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which in the aggregate (including our headquarters) represent approximately 11.2 million square feet of office/building space and approximately fifty-nine acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol GOOG since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol GOOG since April 3, 2014. Holders of Record As of December 31, 2018 , there were approximately 2,026 and 2,195 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2018 , there were approximately 65 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs (in thousands) (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions) October 1 - 31 830 $ 1,115.81 830 $ 3,412 November 1 - 30 859 $ 1,054.22 859 $ 2,506 December 1 - 31 781 $ 1,048.23 781 $ 1,688 Total 2,470 $ 1,073.02 2,470 (1) In January 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 10 in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases. (2) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases. 21 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Stock Performance Graphs The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2018 . The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$100 invested on December 31, 2013 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 22 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 57-Month total shareholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from April 3, 2014 to December 31, 2018 . The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$100 invested on April 3, 2014 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 23 Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in