ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Item 2 constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Companys management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides certain safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made pursuant to the Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to its forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words AOS, the Company, we, us and our refer to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited and its subsidiaries. 23 This managements discussion should be read in conjunction with the managements discussion included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 23, 2018 . Overview We are a designer, developer and global supplier of a broad portfolio of power semiconductors. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 1,900 products, and has grown with the introduction of 200 new products during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, and over 80 and 90 new products in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 , we introduced an additional 32 new products. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 743 patents and 96 patent applications in the United States as of September 30, 2018 . We also had a total of 779 foreign patents, which primarily were based on our research and development efforts through September 30, 2018 . We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal computers, flat panel TVs, LED lighting, smart phones, battery packs, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for TVs, computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate an 8-inch wafer fabrication facility in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development and new product introduction as well as to improve our financial performance in the long run. To meet the market demand for more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. On March 29, 2016, we entered into a joint venture contract (the JV Agreement) with two investment funds owned by the Municipality of Chongqing (the Chongqing Funds), pursuant to which we and the Chongqing Funds formed a joint venture, (the JV Company), for the purpose of constructing a power semiconductor packaging, testing and wafer fabrication facility in the Liangjiang New Area of Chongqing, China (the JV Transaction). As of September 30, 2018, we owned 54%, and the Chongqing Funds owned 46%, of the equity interest in the JV Company. If both parties agree that the termination of the JV Company is the best interest of each party or the JV Company is bankrupt or insolvent where either party may terminate early, after paying the debts of the JV Company, the remaining assets of the JV Company shall be paid to the Chongqing Funds to cover the principal of its total paid-in contributions plus interest at 10% simple annual rate prior to distributing the balance of the JV Company's assets to us. The JV Company completed its assembly and testing facility and commenced small mass production for assembly and testing in September 2018. In addition, the JV Company substantially completed its 12-inch wafer fab facility and expects trial production at the 12-inch wafer fabrication facility toward the end of calendar year 2018. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 , we recorded $3.3 million in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, representing 46% of the net loss incurred in the JV Company. In the long-term, we expect the joint venture to deliver significant cost savings, enhance our market positions in China, and drive meaningful improvements in working capital and capital expenditures. As part of the JV Transaction, the JV Company entered into an Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract (the EPC Contract) with The IT Electronics Eleventh Design & Research Institute Scientific and Technological Engineering Corporation Limited (the Contractor), effective as of January 10, 2017 (the "Effective Date"), pursuant which the Contractor was engaged to construct the manufacturing facility contemplated under the JV Agreement. The total price payable under the EPC Contract is Chinese Renminbi (RMB) 540.0 million, or approximately $78.0 million, based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollars on the Effective Date. The payment is subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in RMB foreign exchange rates. As of September 30, 2018 , the JV Company paid approximately $68.3 million (RMB 469.5 million ), and expects to pay the remaining of $10.2 million (RMB 70.5 million ) in fiscal year 2019. The payment is subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in RMB foreign exchange rates. On September 5, 2017, we entered into a license agreement with STMicroelectronics International N.V. (STMicro), pursuant to which STMicro granted us a world-wide, royalty-free and fully-paid license to use its technologies to develop, market and distribute certain digital multi-phase controller products, which have been previously offered by STMicro. Under the license agreement, we agreed to pay a total price in cash of $17.0 million based on the payment schedule as set forth in the agreement of 24 approximately $10.1 million, $6.7 million and $0.2 million in calendar year 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. As of September 30, 2018 , we recorded $15.8 million of such intangible assets. During the first quarter of fiscal year of 2019, we announced a new Type-C Power Delivery compliant input protection switch with up to 28V over-voltage protection. This new device offers low RDS(ON) (20mohm) in a thermally enhanced 3x3mm DFN package, made possible by our advanced co-packaging technology, combining a high performance IC with protection features and our latest high SOA MOSFET. We also announced new TO-Leadless (TOLL) packaging technology for high current 400A applications. The TOLL packaging technology offers very low package resistance and inductance due to the clip technology in comparison to other TO-Leadless packages using standard wire-bonding technology which enables improved EMI performance. Factors affecting our performance Our performance is affected by several key factors, including the following: Costs of JV Company and digital power business: We are incurring an increase in operating expenses due to the additional costs associated with ramping up pre-production activities of the JV Company, as well as the initial startup work to develop and establish our new digital power business will have the significant impact on our financial performance. The JV Company completed its assembly and testing facility and commenced limited small production for assembly and testing in September 2018. In addition, the JV Company substantially completed our 12-inch wafer fab facility and expects trial production toward the end of calendar year 2018. The pre-production costs include costs relating to the installation of equipment; performance of the qualification process; increased demand for electrical power and other utilities; increased headcount as a result of hiring of additional personnel, staff and operators; and establishment of administrative and management functions and systems. In addition, a portion of these pre-production expenses and production ramp-up costs cannot be capitalized under U.S. GAAP accounting, therefore such costs impact our profitability. Furthermore, we are developing our digital power business based on the STMicro license agreement in September 2017, which will allow us to design and distribute a full suite of advanced low-voltage power IC products. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional costs, including costs relating to hiring and compensation of qualified engineers and technical staff and other research and development and management activities, as we continue to build this new business. In the short term, we will not be able to generate sufficient amount of revenue from either of these two business initiatives to offset the increase costs, which will likely negatively impact our results of operations. Manufacturing costs : Our gross margin may be affected by our manufacturing costs, including utilization of our manufacturing facilities, pricing of wafers from third party foundries and semiconductor raw materials, which may fluctuate from time to time largely due to the market demand and supply. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs associated with our packaging and testing facilities and our Oregon fab and our Chongqing fabrication facility. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. In addition, we expect that in the long term our joint venture agreement with the Chongqing Funds will reduce our costs of manufacturing. Furthermore, from time to time, we may experience wafer capacity constraints, particularly at third party foundries, that may prevent us from fully meeting the demand of our customers. While we can mitigate such constraints by increasing and re-allocating capacity at our own fab, we may not be able to do so quickly or at sufficient level, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Erosion of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect our average selling prices of existing products to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling price by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. The global, regional economic and PC market conditions : Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, a deterioration of the global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. For example, because a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the personal computing ("PC") markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs, a significant decline or downturn in the PC market can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue from the PC market accounted for approximately 43.8% and 38.8% of our total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. In the past, we have experienced a significant global decline in the PC markets due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material negative impact on the demand for our products, revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. We have executed and continue to execute strategies to diversify our product portfolio, penetrate into other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial markets, and improve 25 gross margins and profit by implementing cost control measures. While making progress in reducing our reliance on the computing market, we continue to support our computing business and capitalize on the opportunities in this market with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy. Product introductions and customers' product requirements : Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and obtain design wins. Our failure to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet customers' specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and our inability to continue to expand our serviceable markets, could adversely affect our financial performance, including loss of market share. We believe that the JV Transaction will increase and diversify our customer base, particularly in China, in the long term. The JV Company completed its assembly and testing facility and commenced limited mass production of assembly and testing in September 2018. The JV Company substantially completed its 12-inch wafer fab facility and expects trial production of power semiconductors toward the end of calendar year 2018. However, we may experience delays in the commencement or ramp up of the production at the JV Company. Even if we are able to commence JV operation timely, we may not be successful in acquiring a sufficient number of new customers to offset the additional costs due to various factors, including but are not limited to, competition from other semiconductor companies in the region, our lack of history and prior relationships with customers as a new entrant, difficulties in executing our joint venture strategies, lack of control over our operations and the general economic conditions in Chongqing and China. Distributor ordering patterns, customer demand and seasonality : Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlook and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. In recent periods, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the decline of the PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. Furthermore, our revenue may be impacted by the level of demand from our major customers due to factors outside of our control. If these major customers experience significant decline in the demand of their products, encounter difficulties or defects in their products, or otherwise fail to execute their sales and marketing strategies successfully, it may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Because our products typically have three to five year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third-parties through one of our subsidiaries. Our product revenue is reported net of the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers ("ODMs") or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In these situations, we will grant price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Cost of goods sold 26 Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and costs associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and inventory reserves. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. We implemented a process to improve our factory capacity utilization rates by transferring more wafer production to our Oregon fab and reducing our reliance on outside foundries. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to the market conditions, our goal is to make them less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volume of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. Research and development expenses. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs and other expenses for general and administrative functions as well as costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Results of Operations The following tables set forth statements of operations, also expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 . Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. 27 Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 115,072 $ 104,858 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 82,461 77,328 71.7 % 73.7 % Gross profit 32,611 27,530 28.3 % 26.3 % Operating expenses Research and development 11,384 8,325 9.9 % 7.9 % Selling, general and administrative 20,352 14,615 17.7 % 13.9 % Total operating expenses 31,736 22,940 27.6 % 21.8 % Operating income 875 4,590 0.7 % 4.5 % Interest income and other income (loss), net 262 40 0.2 % % Interest expense (1,490 ) (17 ) (1.2 )% % Net income (loss) before income taxes (353 ) 4,613 (0.3 )% 4.5 % Income tax expense 560 1,274 0.5 % 1.2 % Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interest (913 ) 3,339 (0.8 )% 3.3 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3,329 ) (1,461 ) (2.9 )% (1.4 )% Net income attributable to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited $ 2,416 $ 4,800 2.1 % 4.7 % Share-based compensation expense was allocated as follow: Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 497 $ 316 0.4 % 0.3 % Research and development 632 362 0.5 % 0.3 % Selling, general and administrative 2,000 1,330 1.7 % 1.3 % Total $ 3,129 $ 2,008 2.6 % 1.9 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 92,255 $ 83,678 $ 8,577 10.3 % Power IC 19,415 18,097 1,318 7.3 % Packaging and testing services 3,402 3,083 319 10.3 % $ 115,072 $ 104,858 $ 10,214 9.7 % Total revenue was $115.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of $10.2 million , or 9.7% , as compared to $104.9 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $8.6 million and $1.3 million in sales of power discrete products and in sales of power IC products, respectively. The increase in power discrete and power IC product sales was primarily due to a 16.2% increase in average selling price as compared to the same quarter last year due to a shift in product mix, partially offset by a 5.5% decrease in unit shipments. The increase in revenue of packaging and 28 testing services for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to increased demand. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 82,461 $ 77,328 $ 5,133 6.6 % Percentage of revenue 71.7 % 73.7 % Gross profit $ 32,611 $ 27,530 $ 5,081 18.5 % Percentage of revenue 28.3 % 26.3 % Cost of goods sold was $82.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of $5.1 million , or 6.6% , as compared to $77.3 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to the 9.7% increase of revenue. Cost of goods sold for the three months ended September 30, 2018 also included production ramp up costs related to our Chongqing joint venture. Gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points to 28.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to 26.3% for the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased average selling prices as a result of improved product mix. Research and development expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 11,384 $ 8,325 $ 3,059 36.7 % Research and development expenses were $11.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of $3.1 million , or 36.7% , as compared to $8.3 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $1.9 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expense mainly due to higher bonus accrual and increased headcount to ramp up our digital power business, a $0.3 million increase in product prototyping engineering expense as a result of increased engineering activities, a $0.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense as a result of an increase of stock awards granted, a $0.3 million increase in professional services expense as a result of higher consulting fee and recruiting fee, and a $0.3 million increase in equipment supplies as a result of higher patent expense and hardware and software expense in the current quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 20,352 $ 14,615 $ 5,737 39.3 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $20.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of $5.7 million , or 39.3% , as compared to $14.6 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $3.5 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses as a result of pre-production costs for the 12-inch fab facility in the JV Company, as well as increased headcount and higher bonus accrual, a $0.7 million increase in share-based compensation expense due to an increase of stock awards granted, a $1.0 million increase in engineering related expenses as a result of pre-production costs for the 12-inch fab facility in the JV Company, and a $0.4 million increase in employee business expenses due to increased travel expenses during the current quarter. Interest income and others income (loss), net 29 Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest income and other income (loss), net $ 262 $ 40 $ 222 555.0 % Interest income and other income (loss), net was primarily related to interest earned from cash and cash equivalents, as well as foreign exchange gains (losses). The increase in interest income and other income (loss), net during the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period last year was primarily due to higher foreign currency exchange gains as a result of recent appreciation of USD against RMB. Interest expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest expense $ (1,490 ) $ (17 ) $ (1,473 ) 8,664.7 % Interest expense was primarily related to bank borrowings. The increase in interest expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period last year was primarily due to an increase in bank borrowings, including the $13.2 million and $16.7 million of term loan drew down in January 2018 and July 2018, respectively, for the purpose of purchasing certain equipment for our Oregon fab, $17.8 million term loan obtained in May 2018 and approximately $60.4 million (400 million RMB) financing lease in May 2018 for the acquisition and installation of the 12" fabrication equipment and other expenses of the JV Company relating to the completion of the fabrication facility located in Chongqing. Income tax expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense $ 560 $ 1,274 $ (714 ) (56.0 )% For the three months ended September 30, 2018 , the Company recognized income tax expense of approximately $0.6 million . For the three months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.3 million , which included a discrete tax expense of $0.4 million related principally to an intercompany asset transfer. Excluding the discrete income tax items, the estimated effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was (159.8)% compared to 19.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The changes in the effective tax rate and tax expense between the periods resulted primarily from changes in the mix of earnings in various geographic jurisdictions between the current year and the same period of last year somewhat offset by the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate following the enactment of the 2017 U.S. Tax Cut and Jobs Act. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to grow of our business. To date, we finance our operations and capital expenditures primarily through funds generated from operations and borrowing under our term loan and financing lease. On August 15, 2017, our Oregon subsidiary, Jireh Semiconductor Incorporated (Jireh), entered into a credit agreement with a financial institution (the Bank) that provides a term loan in an amount up to $30.0 million for the purpose of purchasing certain equipment for our fabrication facility located in Oregon. The obligation under the credit agreement is secured by substantially all assets of Jireh and guaranteed by the Company. The credit agreement has a five-year term and matures on August 15, 2022. In January 2018 and July 2018, Jireh drew down the loan in the amount of $13.2 million and $16.7 million, respectively. The loan accrues interest based on an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") as defined in the credit agreement, plus specified applicable margin in the range of 1.75% to 2.25%, based on the outstanding balance of the loan. As of September 30, 2018 , the outstanding balance of the term loan was $29.8 million . The credit agreement contains customary restrictive covenants, including certain financial covenants that require the Company to maintain, on a consolidated basis, specified financial ratios and fixed charge coverage ratio. On May 1, 2018, Jireh entered into a credit agreement with the Bank that provided a term loan in an amount of $17.8 million. The obligation under the credit agreement is secured by certain assets of Jireh and guaranteed by the Company. The loan accrues interest based on a fixed rate of 5.04% based on the outstanding balance of the loan. The credit agreement contains customary restrictive covenants and includes certain financial covenants that require us to maintain, on a consolidated basis, specified financial ratios. As of September 30, 2018 , the outstanding balance of the term loan was $17.5 million . In November 2018, we obtained a waiver from the Bank with respect to the term loans in Jireh which, among other things, waived our violation of the minimum Adjusted Quick ratio covenant as required. Adjusted Quick ratio is the ratio of (a) current assets excluding inventory to (b) the sum of current liabilities plus the total amount of debt owing to the Bank and any other bank affiliate. Following the execution of such waiver, as of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the term loans. In March 2016, we entered into the JV Agreement with an initial capitalization of $330.0 million. As of September 30, 2018 , the Chongqing Funds contributed a total of $162.0 million of initial capital in cash, and we contributed $35.0 million, including $25.0 million contribution in August 2018, in cash and certain intangible assets, as well as certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal titles of such equipment to the JV Company. The JV Company completed its assembly and testing facility and commenced small mass production for assembly and testing in September 2018. The JV Company also substantially completed its 12-inch wafer fab facility and expects trial production toward the end of calendar year 2018. If both parties agree that the termination of the JV Company is the best interest of each party or the JV Company is bankrupt or insolvent where either party may terminate early, after paying the debts of the JV Company, the remaining assets of the JV Company shall be paid to the Chongqing Funds to cover the principal of its total paid-in contributions plus the interest at 10% simple annual rate prior to distributing the balance of the JV Company's assets to us. In January 2017, the JV Company entered into the EPC Contract. The total price payable by the JV Company under the EPC Contract is Chinese Renminbi (RMB) 540.0 million, or approximately $78.0 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollars on the Effective Date. The payment is subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in RMB foreign currency exchange rates. As of September 30, 2018 , the JV Company paid approximately $68.3 million (RMB 469.5 million ), and expect to pay the remaining of $10.2 million (RMB 70.5 million ) in fiscal year 2019. We expect the JV Company will be required to obtain additional financing in order to fund the remaining portion of the acquisition of equipment necessary to commence production at the facility. However, there is no guarantee that the JV Company will be able to secure the required amount of financing from the lenders, or if such financing will be available on terms favorable to us. If the JV Company cannot secure sufficient financing, we may use a portion of our cash reserve to further capitalize and finance the JV Company. On May 9, 2018 (the Effective Date), the JV Company entered into a lease finance agreement and a security agreement (the Agreements) with YinHai Leasing Company and China Import/Export Bank (the Lenders). Pursuant to the Agreements, the Lenders agree to provide an aggregate of Chinese Renminbi (RMB) 400.0 million, or $62.8 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollars on the Effective Date, of financing to the JV Company (the Lease Financing). The interest under the Lease Financing is accrued based on the China Base Rate multiplied by 1.15, or 5.4625% on the Effective Date. Under the Agreements, at the end of the five-year lease term, the Lenders agree to sell such equipment back to the JV Company for a nominal amount (RMB 1). The JV Companys obligations under the Lease Financing are secured by the land and building owned by the JV Company (the Collateral). As of September 30, 2018, the outstanding 31 balance of the Lease Financing was approximately $58.2 million based on the currency exchange rate as of September 30, 2018. In September 2017, the Board of Directors terminated our prior repurchase program that was approved in 2015 and approved a new repurchase program (the Repurchase Program). The Repurchase Program allows us to repurchase our common shares from the open market pursuant to a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 trading plan or through privately negotiated transactions up to an aggregate of $30.0 million. The amount and timing of any repurchases under the Repurchase Program depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the trading price, volume, availability of our common shares and the amount of available cash reserve. Shares repurchased under this program are accounted for as treasury shares and the total cost of shares repurchased is recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. There is no guarantee that such repurchases under the Repurchase Program will enhance the value of our shares. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 , we repurchased 111,509 shares from the open market, for a total cost of $1.5 million , at an average price of $13.43 per share, under the share repurchase program. Since the inception of the prior repurchase program in 2010, we repurchased an aggregate of 6,784,648 shares from the open market including shares purchased in the Tender Offer for a total cost of $67.3 million , at an average price of $9.92 per share, excluding fees and related expenses. As of September 30, 2018 , of the 6,784,648 repurchased shares, 133,728 shares with a weighted average repurchase price of $10.48 per share, were reissued at an average price of $5.77 per share pursuant to option exercises and vested restricted share units. We had $13.4 million remained available under the Repurchase Program as of September 30, 2018 . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. In the long-term, we may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash and cash equivalents As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 , we had $113.4 million and $131.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily consist of cash on hand, restricted cash, and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Of the $113.4 million and $131.7 million cash and cash equivalents, $92.9 million and $101.1 million, respectively, are deposited with financial institutions outside the United States. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 17,987 $ 12,250 Net cash used in investing activities (49,493 ) (34,009 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 14,715 86,846 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,579 ) 182 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (18,370 ) $ 65,269 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $18.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 resulted primarily from net loss of $0.9 million and non-cash expenses of $11.0 million as well as net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.9 million . The non-cash expenses of $11.0 million included a $7.9 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and a $3.1 million of share-based compensation expense. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.9 million were primarily due to a $9.3 million increase in accrued and other liabilities, a $9.7 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of payment, 32 and a $0.3 million decrease in other current and long term assets due to decrease in advance payments to vendors, partially offset by a $7.9 million increase in inventories to meet the market demand, and a $3.6 million increase in accounts receivable from timing of billings and collection of payments. Net cash provided by operating activities of $12.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 resulted primarily from net income of $3.3 million and non-cash expenses of $9.1 million, offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $0.2 million. The non-cash expenses of $9.1 million included a $7.0 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and a $2.0 million of share-based compensation expense. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $0.2 million were primarily due to a $2.9 million increase in inventories, a $3.2 million increase in other current and long term assets due to increase in advance payments to vendors, partially offset by a $3.0 million decrease in accounts receivable from timing of billings and collection of payments, a $2.4 million increase in accrued and other liabilities and a $0.7 million increase in income taxes payable. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities of $49.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to $49.5 million purchases of property and equipment, including $34.3 million purchase in the JV Company during the quarter. Net cash used in investing activities of $34.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to $28.3 million purchases of property and equipment, including $21.2 million purchase in the JV Company and $5.7 million in purchases of intangible asset. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities of $14.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to $16.7 million proceeds from borrowings and $0.1 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $1.5 million for repurchase of our common shares under the repurchase program, $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations, $0.2 million in repayments of borrowings, and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities of $86.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to $87.0 million proceeds from investment by noncontrolling interest and $0.2 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units. Capital expenditures Capital expenditures were $49.5 million and $28.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The increase in capital expenditure was primarily due to EPC construction payment in connection with the JV Transaction, additional purchase of equipment and assets and investment in R&D to improve our technology and support our new product introductions. In general, our capital expenditures primarily consist of purchases of equipment for our packaging and testing services and for our Oregon fab, purchases of equipment and construction payment in Chongqing for the Joint Venture Company, and investment in new technology as well as for upgrading our operational and financial systems. We expect that our capital expenditures will continue to increase in order to support the JV Transaction, including additional costs associated with pre-production activities of the JV Company. We also expect capital expenditure continue to increase as we accelerate the development of our new digital power business. Commitments See Note 11 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2018 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii) arrangements. Contractual Obligations 33 There were no material changes outside of our ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 34