Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview. We cannot be certain that these conditions will be satisfied on a timely basis, including those conditions that are outside of our control. If these conditions are not met by the deadlines as set forth in the equity transfer agreement, we may be exposed to significant risks, including failure to receive a portion or any of the cash proceeds from the sale, which may adversely affect our ability to continue investment in technology, R&D projects and acquisition of assets complimentary to our business operations. Furthermore, failure to meet these conditions may require the parties to terminate and unwind the transaction, which will adversely affect our reputation, business operations and stock price. Our reliance on distributors to sell a substantial portion of our products subjects us to a number of risks. We sell a substantial portion of our products to distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. Our distributors typically offer power semiconductor products from several different companies, including our direct competitors. The distributors assume collection risk and provide logistical services to end customers, including stocking our products. Two distributors, WPG and Promate, collectively accounted for 73.4%, 71.0% and 57.2% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We currently have effective agreements with Promate and WPG to serve as our distributors, and such agreement is renewed automatically for one-year period continuously unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of such agreements. We believe that our success will continue to depend upon these distributors. Our reliance on distributors subjects us to a number of risks, including: write-downs in inventories associated with stock rotation rights and increases in provisions for price adjustments granted to certain distributors; potential reduction or discontinuation of sales of our products by distributors; failure to devote resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; focusing their sales efforts on products of our competitors; dependence upon the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital and all of which depend on general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry; 21 dependence on the timeliness and accuracy of shipment forecasts and resale reports from our distributors; management of relationships with distributors, which can deteriorate as a result of conflicts with efforts to sell directly to our end customers; and our agreements with distributors which are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If any significant distributor becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, or if we are not able to renew our contracts with the distributors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to find a replacement distributor on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be harmed. We have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies, assets or businesses or form joint ventures with partners to advance our business objectives. These acquisitions and joint ventures involve significant risks and uncertainties. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers, partnership, joint ventures and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other factors, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales, marketing and research and development efforts. We may also seek to establish partnerships, joint ventures and acquisition of assets in various foreign jurisdictions where we may not have significant operating experience. In addition, we may encounter unanticipated challenges and difficulties, including regulatory and compliance issues, lack of local support and geopolitical tensions. The difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with dissimilar business backgrounds. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to identify viable targets for strategic acquisition. Also we may incur significant costs in efforts that may not result in a successful acquisitions. In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing shareholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could impose restrictions on our business operations and harm our operating results. If we are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or if the price of raw materials increases significantly, production time and product costs could increase, which may adversely affect our business. Our fabrication and packaging processes depend on raw materials such as silicon wafers, gold, copper, molding compound, petroleum and plastic materials and various chemicals and gases. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. If the prices of these raw materials rise significantly, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or at reasonable price. In addition, from time to time, we may need to reject raw materials because they do not meet our specifications or the sourcing of such materials do not comply with our conflict mineral policies, resulting in potential delays or declines in output. Furthermore, problems with our raw materials may give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, which could lead to an increase in customer returns or product warranty claims. Errors or defects may arise from raw materials supplied by third parties that are beyond our detection or control, which could lead to additional customer returns or product warranty claims that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to accurately estimate provisions at fiscal period end for price adjustment and stock rotation rights under our agreements with distributors, and our failure to do so may impact our operating results. We sell a majority of our products to distributors under arrangements allowing price adjustments and returns under stock rotation programs, subject to certain limitations. As a result, we are required to estimate allowances for price adjustments and stock rotation for our products as inventory at distributors at each reporting period end. We estimate the allowance for price adjustment based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, forecasted distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Our estimated allowances for price adjustments, which we offset against accounts receivable from distributors, were $40.8 million and $41.7 million at June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our accruals for stock rotation are estimated based on historical returns and individual distributor agreement, and stock rotation rights, which are recorded as accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, are contractually capped based on 22 the terms of each individual distributor agreement. Our estimated liabilities for stock rotation at June 30, 2025 and 2024 were $6.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Our estimates for these allowances and accruals may be inaccurate. If we subsequently determine that any allowance and accrual based on our estimates is insufficient, we may be required to increase the size of our allowances and accrual in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations of one wholly-owned packaging and testing facility are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have one wholly-owned packaging and testing facility located in Shanghai, China that handles the majority of our packaging and testing requirements. The operation of high-volume packaging and testing facility and implementation of our advanced packaging technology are complex and demand a high degree of precision and may require modification to improve yields and product performance. We have committed substantial resources to ensure that our packaging and testing facilities operate efficiently and successfully, including the acquisition of equipment and raw materials, and training and management of a large number of technical personnel and employees. Due to the fixed costs associated with operating our own packaging and testing facilities, if we are unable to utilize our in-house facility at a desirable level of production, our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected. For example, a significant decline in our market share or sales orders may negatively impact our factory utilization and reduce our ability to achieve profitability. In addition, the operation of our packaging and testing facility is subject to a number of risks, including the following: unavailability of equipment, whether new or previously owned, at acceptable terms and prices; facility equipment failure, power outages or other disruptions; shortage of raw materials, including copper, gold and molding compound; failure to maintain quality assurance and remedy defects and impurities; changes in the packaging requirements of customers; compliance with local and regional legal and regulatory requirements; and unexpected customs, tax and other government audits and investigations concerning related party transactions, transfer pricing arrangements, IP license and royalty payments, etc. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our capacity to package and test our products, which could delay shipment of our products, result in higher expenses, reduce revenue, damage our relationships with customers and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our business operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems, including any cyberattacks and breaches. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions across offices internationally. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, complete and track customer orders, coordinate sales activities across all of our products and services, maintain vital data and information, perform financial and accounting tasks and manage and perform various administrative and human resources functions. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any extended time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or manmade events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic breakins, cyber-attacks and similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. In the past we have experienced cybersecurity incidents and threats against our information technology systems. While these incidents and attacks did not have a material adverse effect on our business operation or results of operations, they caused temporary disruptions and interfered with our operations. Any cybersecurity breach and financial loss may also have a negative impact on our internal control over financial reporting. While we have implemented additional measures to enhance our security protocol to protect our system and intend to do so in response to any threats, there is no guarantee that future attacks would be thwarted or prevented. We also expect to incur additional costs and expenses to upgrade our information technology system and establish additional protective measures to prevent future breaches. Furthermore, despite our efforts to investigate, improve and remediate the capability and performance of our information technology system, we may not be able to discover all weaknesses, breaches and vulnerabilities, and failure to do so may expose us to higher risk of data loss and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. 23 We depend on the continuing services of our senior management team and other key personnel, and if we lose a member of our senior management or are unable to successfully retain, recruit and train key personnel, our ability to develop and market our products could be harmed. Our success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. In particular, our engineers and other sales and technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. We have entered into employment agreements with certain senior executives, but we do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. Many of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work for a competitor. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and other senior management may be required to divert attention from other aspects of our business. In addition, we do not have key person life insurance policies covering any member of our management team or other key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could adversely affect our product introductions, overall business growth prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to protect our patents and our other proprietary information could harm our business and competitive position. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright (including mask work protection), trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. As of June 30, 2025, we owned 949 issued U.S. patents expiring between 2025 and 2043 and had 64 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we own patents and have filed patent applications in several jurisdictions outside of the U.S, including China, Taiwan, Japan and Korea. Our patents and patent applications may not provide meaningful protection from our competitors, and there is no guarantee that patents will be issued from our patent applications. The status of any patent or patent application involves complex legal and factual determinations and the breadth of a claim is uncertain. In addition, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not succeed due to difficulties and risks associated with: policing any unauthorized use of or misappropriation of our intellectual property, which is often difficult and costly and could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us; others independently developing similar proprietary information and techniques, gaining authorized or unauthorized access to our intellectual property rights, disclosing such technology or designing around our patents; the possibility that any patent or registered trademark owned by us may not be enforceable or may be invalidated, circumvented or otherwise challenged in one or more countries, which may limit our competitive advantages; uncertainty as to whether patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all; and the possibility that intellectual property laws and confidentiality laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, including, for example, in China where enforcement of China intellectual property-related laws have historically been less effective, primarily because of difficulties in enforcement and low damage awards. We also rely on customary contractual protection with our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and consultants, and we implement security measures to protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that these contractual protections and security measures will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our suppliers, employees, distributors or consultants will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such contracts. In addition, we have a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements, one of which requires us to make ongoing royalty payments. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. Intellectual property disputes could result in lengthy and costly arbitration, litigation or licensing expenses or prevent us from selling our products. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we or our customers have received and may continue to receive claims of infringement from time to time or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties that may cover some of our technology, products and services or those of our end customers. The 24 semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights which has resulted in protracted and expensive arbitration and litigation for many companies. Patent litigation has increased in recent years due to increased assertions made by intellectual property licensing entities or non-practicing entities and increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Any litigation or arbitration regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We have in the past and may from time to time in the future become involved in litigation that requires our management to commit significant resources and time. In addition, as part of our strategy to diversify our serviceable markets, we launched several key product families and technologies to enable high efficiency power conversion solutions and we plan to develop and commercialize new products in other power semiconductor markets. Our entry into the commercial markets for high-voltage power semiconductors and other markets as a result of our diversification strategy may subject us to additional and increased risk of disputes or litigation relating to these products. Because of the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally, any intellectual property arbitration or litigation involves significant risks. Any claim of intellectual property infringement against us may require us to: incur substantial legal and personnel expenses to defend the claims or to negotiate for a settlement of claims; pay substantial damages or settlement to the party claiming infringement; refrain from further development or sale of our products; attempt to develop non-infringing technology, which may be expensive and time consuming, if possible at all; enter into costly royalty or license agreements that might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; cross-license our technology with a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; and indemnify our distributors, end customers, licensees and others from the costs of and damages of infringement claims by our distributors, end customers, licensees and others, which could result in substantial expenses for us and damage our business relationships with them. Any intellectual property claim or litigation against us harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Evolving export control regulations may adversely affect our business operations. We expect that the U.S. export control regulations to evolve and change in response to the political and economic tension between the U.S. and China, including potential new export control regulations that may impose additional restrictions on our ability to continue to do business with certain customers in China and Asia. If such changes occur, we may be required to reduce shipments to certain Asian customers, adjust our business practices and incur additional costs to implement new export control compliance procedures, policies and programs, each of which will adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Global or regional economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, financial crises, such as the global or regional economic recession, or geopolitical and social turmoil in those parts of the world that serve as markets for our products could have significant adverse effect on our business and operating results in ways that cannot presently be predicted. Any future economic downturn or recession in the global economy in general and, in particular, on the economies in China, Taiwan and other countries where we market and sell our products, will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business operations could be significantly harmed by natural disasters or global epidemics. We have research and development facilities located in Taiwan and the Silicon Valley in Northern California. Historically, these regions have been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, which may disrupt the local economy and pose physical risks to our property. We also have sales offices located in Taiwan and Japan where similar natural disasters and other risks may disrupt the local economy and pose physical risks to our operations. We are not currently covered by insurance against business disruption caused by earthquakes. In addition, we 25 currently do not have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. In the event of such an occurrence, our business would suffer. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters such as epidemics, outbreaks or other health crisis. An outbreak of avian flu or H1N1 flu in the human population, or another similar health crisis similar to the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Moreover, any related disruptions to transportation or the free movement of persons could hamper our operations and force us to close our offices temporarily. The occurrence of any of the foregoing or other natural or man-made disasters could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, operations, distribution channels, markets and customers, which could result in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages of our products and adversely affect our business results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our insurance may not cover all losses, including losses resulting from business disruption or product liability claims. We have limited product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage for our operations. In addition, we do not have any business insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by litigation or natural disasters. Any occurrence of uncovered loss could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our international operations subject our company to risks not faced by companies without international operations. We have adopted a global business model under which we maintain significant operations and facilities through our subsidiaries located in the U.S., China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Our main research and development center is located in Silicon Valley, and our manufacturing and supply chain is located in China. We also have sales offices and customers throughout Asia, the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. Our international operations may subject us to the following risks: economic and political instability, including trade tension between the U.S. and China; costs and delays associated with transportations and communications; coordination of operations through multiple jurisdictions and time zones; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; trade restrictions, changes in laws and regulations relating to, amongst other things, import and export tariffs, taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights and property; and the laws of, including tax laws, and the policies of the U.S. toward, countries in which we operate. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment as well as adequate control procedures over our financial reporting, investor confidence may be adversely affected thereby affecting the value of our stock price. We are required to maintain proper internal control over our financial reporting and adequate controls related to our disclosures. As defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act, internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If we fail to maintain adequate controls, our business, the results of operations, financial condition and/or the value of our stock may be adversely impacted. In addition, if we identify material weakness in our internal control process, we may be required to incur additional costs to implement remedial measures, and public disclosure of material weaknesses may adversely affect the investors confidence in the quality of our financial disclosures, which may negatively impact trading price of our stock. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes and changes in existing tax rules. We conduct our business in multiple jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, Macau, the U.S., China, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, India, the United Kingdom and Germany. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. Any of these jurisdictions may assert that we have unpaid taxes. Our effective tax rate was 31.0%, (138.1)% and 30.1% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 26 Any tax rate changes in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate could result in adjustments to our deferred tax assets, if applicable, which would affect our effective tax rate and results of operations.We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities.However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by tax authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have a retroactive effect.In particular, various proposals over the years have been made to change certain U.S. tax laws relating to foreign entities with U.S. connections.In addition, the U.S. government has proposed various other changes to the U.S. international tax system, certain of which could adversely impact foreign-based multinational corporate groups, and increased enforcement of U.S. international tax laws. It is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws, foreign tax laws, or proposed actions by international bodies such as the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) could significantly increase our U.S. or foreign income tax liability in the future, including as described further below in this risk factor. In December 2017, the European Union (EU) identified certain jurisdictions (including Bermuda and Cayman Islands) which it considered had a tax system that facilitated offshore structuring by attracting profits without commensurate economic activity. In order to avoid EU blacklisting, both Bermuda and Cayman Islands introduced new legislation in December 2018, which came into force on January 1, 2019. These new laws require Bermuda and Cayman companies carrying on one or more relevant activity (including: banking, insurance, fund management, financing, leasing, headquarters, shipping, distribution and service center, intellectual property or holding company) to maintain a substantial economic presence in Bermuda and Cayman Islands in order to comply with the economic substance requirements. Effective from December 31, 2019, we have structured our activities to comply with the new law.However, there is no experience yet as to how the Bermuda and Cayman Islands authorities will interpret and enforce these new rules. The legislation remains subject to further clarification and, accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be deemed to be compliant. Furthermore, this legislation may require us to make additional changes to the activities we carry on in Bermuda or Cayman Islands, which could increase our costs either directly in those locations or indirectly as a result of increased costs related to moving our operations to other jurisdictions. As a result, we are not able to determine the impact on our operations and net income as of the current period. In addition, our subsidiaries provide products and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, us and other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions.We have adopted transfer pricing arrangements for transactions among our subsidiaries.Related party transactions are generally subject to close review by tax authorities, including requirements that transactions be priced at arm's length and be adequately documented.If any tax authorities were successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies or other tax judgments, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subject to interest and penalty charges which may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, the U.S. Congress, the EU, the OECD, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. Our parent company is incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and is subject to Bermuda law with respect to taxation. Under current Bermuda law, the Company is not subject to any income or capital gains taxes in Bermuda. As we have previously disclosed, the Government of Bermuda announced in December 2023 that it enacted the Corporate Income Tax Act 2023, potentially imposing a 15% corporate income tax (CIT) on Bermuda companies that are within the scope of the CIT, that will be effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2025. In particular, the CIT applies to multinational companies with annual revenue of 750 million Euros or more in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent entity for at least two of the four fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year when the CIT may apply. The Company did not generate more than 750 million Euro revenue in any of the four fiscal years before the tax year starting July 1, 2025. The Company continues to monitor and assess if and when it may be within the scope of the CIT. If we become subject to the Bermuda CIT, we may be subject to additional income taxes, which may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our overall business. Our debt agreements include financial covenants that may limit our ability to pursue business and financial opportunities and subject us to risk of default. We have entered into various debt agreements with certain financial institutions, which generally require us to maintain certain financial covenants that have the effect of limiting our ability to take certain actions, including actions to incur debt, repurchase stock, make certain investments and capital expenditures.As we continue to grow our business and expand our operations, we expect to incur additional indebtedness, including loan agreement or equipment leases, in order to fund such capital expenditures.These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue business and financial opportunities that are available or beneficial to us in response to changing and competitive economic environment, which may have an adverse effect on our 27 financial conditions.In addition, a breach of any of these financial covenants, if not waived by the lenders, could trigger an event of default under the debt agreements, which may result in the acceleration of our indebtedness or the loss of our collateral used to secure such indebtedness. The imposition of U.S. corporate income tax on our Bermuda parent and non-U.S. subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that our Bermuda parent and non-U.S. subsidiaries each operate in a manner that they would not be subject to U.S. corporate income tax because they are not engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Nevertheless, there is a risk that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service may assert that our Bermuda parent and non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If our Bermuda parent and non-U.S. subsidiaries were characterized as being so engaged, we would be subject to U.S. tax at the regular corporate rates on our income that is effectively connected with U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% branch profits tax on the dividend equivalent amount, which is generally effectively connected income with certain adjustments, deemed withdrawn from the United States. Any such tax could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (PFIC), which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. holders. Based on the current and anticipated valuation of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be considered a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the foreseeable future. However, we must make a separate determination for each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC after the close of each taxable year and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our June 30, 2025 taxable year or any future taxable year. Under current law, a non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets, generally based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year, is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets, including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% by value of the subsidiary's equity interests, from time to time. Because we currently hold and expect to continue to hold a substantial amount of cash or cash equivalents, and because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our common shares, which may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically often have been volatile, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply for such U.S. holder. Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, 10% or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. Federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations, or CFCs. Prior to the Tax Act, we did not believe that we, or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, were considered a CFC, which is a determination made daily based on whether the 10% U.S. shareholders together own, or are considered to own under the attribution rules, more than 50% of the voting power or value of a non-U.S. corporation. Under the Tax Act, however, because our group includes one or more U.S. subsidiaries, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be classified as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder, even without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power or value of the Company. Our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders should consult their individual tax advisors for advice regarding the Tax Acts revision to the U.S. Federal tax law applicable to owners of CFCs. Changes in tariffs and international trade policies affecting imports and exports may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. The U.S. recently proposed the implementation of a range of new tariffs and significant increases to existing tariffs. In response to such tariffs announced by the U.S., a number of other countries, including Japan and Korea, entered into new trade deals with the United States, which set certain reduced tariff rates. The specific terms of these deals still need to be further defined and implemented. Other countries, like China, are still in ongoing negotiations with the U.S. regarding tariffs, and it is unclear what the final tariff rate may be. Additionally, there is a pending investigation in the United States into the national security impact of imports of semiconductors and semiconductor manufacturing equipment, which may result in tariffs on such imports from all countries. There is thus still significant uncertainty about future U.S. tariff rates, and we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, current tariffs will continue or U.S. trade policies will change in the future. Such uncertainties and risks may negatively affect our ability to enter into new business transactions with partners, vendors and 28 customers because of the lack of clarity on the economic benefits of such transactions. Significant increase in U.S. tariffs may increase the costs of materials, goods and components that we purchase from suppliers from other countries for the manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our financial performance. Also, we may not be able to mitigate the impact of tariffs by identifying and securing alternative sources in the U.S. for similar materials, goods and components at comparable qualities or more favorable prices. Furthermore, tariffs, or the threat of tariffs or increased tariffs, could have a significant negative impact on our business relationships with customers, suppliers and partners in Asia, including China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Japan. Any significant changes in trade policies and tariffs may also affect the business operations of our customers, suppliers and partners, which may cause them to take actions or make decisions that adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Chinas economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business and growth. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economy in China. If Chinas economy is slowing down, it may negatively affect our business operation and financial results. The China economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: higher level of government involvement; early stage of development of a market-oriented economy; rapid growth rate; higher level of control over foreign currency exchange; and less efficient allocation of resources. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises, the Chinese government continues to retain significant control over the business and productive assets in China. Any changes in Chinas government policy or Chinas political, economic and social conditions, or in relevant laws and regulations, may adversely affect our current or future business, results of operations or financial condition. These changes in government policy may be implemented through various means, including changes in laws and regulations, implementation of anti-inflationary measures, change of basic interest rate, changes in the tax rate or taxation system and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and imports. Furthermore, given Chinas largely export-driven economy, any changes in the economies of Chinas principal trading partners and other export-oriented nations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to successfully expand our business operations in China depends on a number of factors, including macroeconomic and other market conditions, and credit availability from lending institutions. In response to the recent global and Chinese economic recession, the Chinese government has promulgated several measures aimed at expanding credit and stimulating economic growth. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the Chinese government to guide economic growth will be effective in maintaining or sustaining the growth rate of the Chinese economy. If measures adopted by the Chinese government fail to achieve further growth in the Chinese economy, it may adversely affect our growth, business strategies and operating results. In addition, changes in political and social conditions of China may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business in the region. For example, geopolitical disputes and increased tensions between China and its neighboring countries in which we conduct business could make it more difficult for us to coordinate and manage our international operations in such countries. Changes in Chinas laws, legal protections or government policies on foreign investment in China may harm our business. Our business and corporate transactions, including our operations through the JV Company, are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations frequently change, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. Regulations and rules on foreign investments in China impose restrictions on the means that a foreign investor like us may apply to facilitate corporate transactions we may undertake. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules 29 until sometime after the violation. If any of our past operations are deemed to be non-compliant with Chinese law, we may be subject to penalties and our business and operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot obtain approval from relevant authorities to engage in businesses which become prohibited or restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure a business which has become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. Furthermore, the Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. If we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment or changes in the interpretation and application of existing or new laws, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be harmed. Moreover, uncertainties in the Chinese legal system may impede our ability to enforce contracts with our business partners, customers and suppliers, or otherwise pursue claims in litigation to recover damages or loss of property, which could adversely affect our business and operations. The continuing trade tensions between the U.S. and China may result in increased tariffs on imported goods from China that could adversely affect our business operations. Since 2018, U.S. and China trade tensions led to higher and increasing tariffs imposed by both countries on the import of goods from the other country. The U.S. government used various authorities to implement tariffs on a variety of Chinese goods and materials, which, absent exemptions, include products and applications, including consumer electronics, that incorporate our power discrete and power IC products. In response, China has imposed tariffs on certain American products, and warned of additional actions if the U.S. imposes new or increased tariffs. Since February 2025, the current U.S. administration has proposed to increase the total tariff level for imported Chinese goods significantly, and additional tariff increases could be imposed as the trade tensions between the two countries continue to heighten. On February 1, 2025, the United States imposed additional tariffs of 10% on all Chinese-origin goods, which was increased to 20% on March 4, 2025. On April 2, 2025, the U.S. announced that it was imposing a 34% reciprocal tariff on top of the existing 20%, raising the tariff on Chinese goods to 54% (which stacks on top of preexisting tariffs of 7.5%-100% on most Chinese-origin goods imposed under previous U.S. administrations). On April 9, 2025, China responded to U.S. tariff threats by hiking its levies on U.S. imports from 34% to 84%, and the U.S. then increased new tariffs on Chinese goods to 125%. On April 11, 2025, the U.S. announced that semiconductors would be exempt from the reciprocal tariffs, but this exemption does not impact the 20% tariff imposed in March. Later that same day, in a further retaliatory move, China increased tariffs on U.S. imports to 125%. On May 12, 2025, the U.S. and China agreed to temporarily suspend most tariffs on each others goods for a 90-day period (the 90-day truce) in trade talks in Geneva. After the Geneva meetings, the new US tariffs on Chinese goods were reduced from 145% to 30%, while Chinas retaliatory tariffs dropped from 125% to 10%. On August 11, 2025, the 90-day truce was extended until November 10, 2025 while the countries continue to engage in negotiations. The continuing trade tensions could have significant adverse effects on world trade and the world economy.While the two countries are having trade talks, including the London trade talk in June and Stockholm trade talk in late July, the ultimate level of tariffs, the ultimate scope of them, and whether or how any proposed additional tariffs will impact our business is uncertain. We believe that the imposition of additional tariffs by the U.S. government on products incorporating our power semiconductors could deter our customers from purchasing our products originating from China. If so, this would reduce demand for our power semiconductor products or result in pricing adjustments that would lower our gross margin, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot predict what additional actions, if any, may be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the United States and China, or what actions may be taken by the China in retaliation. The adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs, trade agreements or related policies have the potential to adversely impact our supply chain, access to equipment, our costs and our product margins. Our China subsidiaries current corporate structure and business operations may be affected by the Foreign Investment Law of the PRC. On March 15, 2019, the National Peoples Congress of the PRC promulgated the Foreign Investment Law, which took effect on January 1, 2020, and replaced the existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The Foreign Investment Law embodies a PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The Foreign Investment Law establishes the basic framework for the access, promotion, protection and administration of foreign 30 investments in China in view of investment protection and fair competition. For example, treatment of foreign investors on a national level will be no less favorable than the treatment received by domestic investors unless such investments fall within a negative list. On June 28, 2018, the National Development and Reform Commission (the NDRC) and the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC (the MOC) published the Special Administrative Measures for Market Access of Foreign Investment (Negative List) (2018 Edition), which identifies specific sectors where foreign investors will be subject to special administrative measures. The Negative List has been updated a few times since its enactment in 2018 and the current effective Negative List (2024 Edition) took effect on November 1, 2024. The PRC Foreign Investment Law provides that foreign-invested entities operating in restricted or prohibited industries will require market entry clearance and other approvals from relevant PRC government authorities. As the Negative List is updated from time to time, there can be no assurance that the China government will not change its policies in a manner that would render part or all of our business to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. If future laws, administrative regulations or provisions mandate further actions to be taken by companies with respect to our business operation, we may face substantial uncertainties as to whether we can complete such actions in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to take timely and appropriate measures to cope with any of these or similar regulatory compliance challenges could materially and adversely affect our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. In addition, under the Foreign Investment Law, foreign investors or the foreign invested enterprise should report investment information on the principle of necessity. Any company found to be non-complaint with such investment information reporting obligation might be potentially subject to fines or administrative liabilities. Limitations on our ability to transfer funds to our China subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations, make investments that could benefit our businesses and otherwise fund and conduct our business. The transfer of funds from us to our China subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by the Chinese governmental authorities, including the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR), and/or the relevant examination and approval authority. Our subsidiaries may also experience difficulties in converting our capital contributions made in foreign currencies into RMB due to changes in Chinas foreign exchange control policies. Therefore, it may be difficult to change capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from us to our China subsidiaries. These limitations and the difficulties our China subsidiaries may experience on the free flow of funds between us and our China subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market situations in a timely manner. Chinas currency exchange control and government restrictions on investment repatriation may impact our ability to transfer funds outside of China. A significant portion of our business is conducted in China where the currency is the RMB. Regulations in China permit foreign owned entities to freely convert the RMB into foreign currency for transactions that fall under the current account, which includes trade related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Accordingly, our Chinese subsidiaries may use RMB to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of such current account transactions without pre-approval. However, pursuant to applicable regulations, foreigninvested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. A Chinese company must pay 10% of its annual after-tax profits to fund its statutory reserve fund unless it has reached 50% of the registered capital of the company. Where the accumulative amount of the companys statutory reserve is not enough to make up for the losses of the previous year, the current years profits must first be used to make up for the losses before the statutory reserve is accrued. Other transactions that involve conversion of RMB into foreign currency are classified as capital account transactions; examples of capital account transactions include repatriations of investment by or loans to foreign owners, or direct equity investments in a foreign entity by a China domiciled entity. Capital account transactions require prior approval from, or registration with SAFE or its provincial branch or its authorized banks to convert a remittance into a foreign currency, such as U.S. dollars, and transmit the foreign currency outside of China. As a result of these and other restrictions under Chinese laws and regulations, our China subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to the parent. Such restricted portion amounted to approximately $93.9 million, or 11.4% of our total consolidated net assets attributed to the Company as of June 30, 2025. We have no assurance 31 that the relevant Chinese governmental authorities in the future will not limit further or eliminate the ability of our China subsidiaries to purchase foreign currencies and transfer such funds to us to meet our liquidity or other business needs. Any inability to access funds in China, if and when needed for use by the Company outside of China, could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity and our business. The M&A Rules and certain other PRC regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, adopted by six PRC regulatory agencies in August 2006 and amended in 2009, and some other regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law requires that the MOC shall be notified in advance of any concentration of undertaking if certain thresholds are triggered. In addition, the security review rules issued by the MOC that became effective in September 2011 specify that mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors that raise national defense and security concerns and mergers and acquisitions through which foreign investors may acquire de facto control over domestic enterprises that raise national security concerns are subject to strict review by the MOC, and the rules prohibit any activities attempting to bypass a security review, including by structuring the transaction through a proxy or contractual control arrangement. On July 1, 2015, the National Security Law of China took effect, which provided that China would establish rules and mechanisms to conduct national security review of foreign investments in China that may impact national security. Chinas Foreign Investment Law, which became effective in January 2020, reiterates that China will establish a security review system for foreign investments. On December 19, 2020, the NDRC and the MOC jointly issued the Measures for the Security Review of Foreign Investments (the New FISR Measures), which was made according to the National Security Law and the Foreign Investment Law of China and became effective on January 18, 2021. The New FISR Measures further expand the scope of national security review on foreign investment compared to the existing rules, while leaving substantial room for interpretation and speculation. In the future, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations and other relevant rules to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOC or its local counterparts may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between U.S. dollar and RMB. While U.S. dollars is our main functional currency and our revenue and a significant portion of our operating expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, we are required to maintain local currencies, primarily the RMB, in our cash balances in connection with the funding of our overseas operations. As a result, our costs and operating expenses may be exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and RMB. We also do not utilize any financial instruments to hedge or reduce potential losses due to the fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. In general, any appreciation of U.S. dollars against a weaker RMB could reduce the value of our cash and cash equivalent balance, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our cash flow, income and profitability. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollars may fluctuate and is affected by many factors outside of our control, including changes in political and economic conditions, implementation of new monetary policies by the Chinese government and changes in banking regulations, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to mitigate or recoup any losses due to a significant fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/RMB exchange rates. PRC labor laws may adversely affect our results of operations. The Chinese government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, effective on January 1, 2008, which was amended on December 28, 2012 and the amended law became effective on July 1, 2013, to govern the establishment of employment relationships between employers and employees, and the conclusion, performance, termination of and the amendment to employment contracts. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employers decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires that certain termination decisions be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event our subsidiaries decide to significantly change or decrease their workforce in China, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect their ability to effect such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, compensation in various industries in China has increased and may continue to increase in the future. In order to attract and retain skilled personnel, we may need to increase the compensation of our employees. Compensation 32 may, also, increase as inflationary pressure increases in China. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for a specific employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers must be compensated for three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. This mandated paid-vacation regulation, coupled with the trend of increasing compensation, may result in increase in our employee-related costs and expenses and decrease in our profit margins. Relations between Taiwan and China could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results and, therefore, the market value of our common shares. Taiwan has a unique international political status. China does not recognize the sovereignty of Taiwan. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and China, relations have often been strained. A substantial number of our key customers and some of our essential sales and engineering personnel are located in Taiwan, and we have a large number of operational personnel and employees located in China. Therefore, factors affecting military, political or economic relationship between China and Taiwan could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our Common Shares Our share price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the purchase price, if at all. Limited trading volumes and liquidity of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market may limit the ability of shareholders to purchase or sell our common shares in the amounts and at the times they wish. In addition, the financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common shares on The NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a low of $16.25 to high of $49.16 from July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025. At July 31, 2025, the trading price of our common shares was $25.47. Volatility in the price of our shares may be caused by factors outside our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results. The market price for our common shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; general economic, industry, regional and global market conditions, including the economic conditions of specific market segments for our products, including the PC markets; our failure to meet analysts expectations, including expectation regarding our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses; changes in financial estimates and outlook by securities research analysts; our ability to increase our gross margin; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements of technological or competitive developments; announcement of acquisition, partnership and major corporate transactions; regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; our ability to enter into new market segments, gain market share, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity; announcements regarding intellectual property disputes or litigation involving us or our competitors; changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; announcement of significant legal proceedings, litigation or government investigation; additions or departures of key personnel; repurchase of shares under our repurchase program; announcement of sales of our securities by us or by our major shareholders; general economic or political conditions in China and other countries in Asia; and 33 other factors. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in such companys share price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources which could negatively impact our business and financial conditions. See Item 3. Legal Proceeding. If securities or industry analysts adversely change their recommendations regarding our common shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the trading price of our common shares could decline. The market price of our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. There is no guarantee that these analysts will understand our business and results, or that their reports will be accurate or correctly predict our operating results or prospects. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common shares or its trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our common shares or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our common shares could decline significantly. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Certain provisions in our bye-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, these provisions also may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. These provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred shares and to issue the preferred shares without shareholder approval; advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings; and the requirement to remove directors by a resolution passed by at least two-thirds of the votes cast by the shareholders having a right to attend and vote at the shareholder meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-partys offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We are a Bermuda company and the rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may be different from U.S. laws. We are a Bermuda limited liability exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions, including the U.S. For example, some of our directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the U.S. or to enforce in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the U.S., against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. 34 Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Item 1C Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We recognize the importance of managing cybersecurity threats and risks related to our business, and we have adopted a multi-faceted and proactive strategy to identify, evaluate, address, respond and neutralize cybersecurity threats and attacks. We employ a combination of technical solutions, security policies and procedures, employee training programs, and regular security audits to enhance and fortify our defenses. We utilize advanced monitoring tools and anomaly detection systems to swiftly identify any suspicious activities or deviations from normal operation. Our security infrastructure includes firewalls, intrusion detection systems, encryption protocols, and access controls to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access or malicious attacks. In the event a cybersecurity incident is detected, we have established incident response procedures to contain the threat, minimize the impact, and restore normal operations as quickly as possible. We also conduct periodic risk assessments to identify cybersecurity threats, as well as assessments in the event of a material change in our business practices that may affect our information systems that are vulnerable to such cybersecurity threats. We believe that our cybersecurity risk management process has been and continues to be an integral part of our overall risk management process of the Company as our cybersecurity team collaborates closely with our information technology team, senior management, Audit Committee and Cybersecurity Subcommittee, and internal audit team to address any such threats and incidents. Our cybersecurity team plays a critical role in managing our cybersecurity risk. They oversee security controls and orchestrate our response to incidents on a day-to-day basis, including threats arising internally or from our vendors, suppliers or other third parties that we conduct business with. In addition, we have developed and implemented information security policies, standards, procedures and security guidelines that are based on industry standards, particularly the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Furthermore, we have implemented and maintained employee policies design to reduce risk of cyber-attacks and educate employees on protocol in the event of a potential cybersecurity incident. We use third-party service providers in various functions throughout our business. We have implemented stringent processes to oversee and manage cybersecurity risk with these third parties, which includes risk assessment activities, enforcement of policies to ensure compliance with current cybersecurity standards and monitoring activities, and periodic review of potential cyber breaches announcements made by the third-party service providers. We are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats that have materially affected our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition or are reasonably likely to have a material effect. However, cyber-attacks are increasing in frequency, sophistication and intensity, and despite our ongoing efforts we cannot eliminate all risks from cybersecurity threats, or provide assurances that we have not experienced undetected cybersecurity incidents. Please refer to Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for more information on the risks posed to us by cybersecurity threats. Governance Our senior management team, including our cybersecurity team, are responsible for day-to-day implementation, assessment, and management of our cybersecurity risk management processes. Our cybersecurity team includes Vice President of Information Technology and Information Security Officer with a team of eight full-time information technology professionals and several outside security vendors to manage our information security program. When a cybersecurity incident is identified, our computer incident response team will notify the Information Security Officer immediately, and upon assessment of the nature and severity of the incident, internal and external parties may be further notified to determine the appropriate response strategy, and written preliminary and final reports will be submitted to management. Our Vice President of Information Technology and Information Security Officer have served in various roles in information technology and information security, and together they have over 55 years of experience in this field. Our Information Security Officer is a certified information systems security professional (CISSP). The cybersecurity team has primary responsibility for our overall cybersecurity risk management program, including monitoring the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents, and works in partnership with senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors (the Board) plays an active role in overseeing and managing the Companys cybersecurity risks. The Audit Committee of the Board has established a Cybersecurity Subcommittee for the purpose of assessing, analyzing and managing the Companys key cybersecurity and information technology risks, and to ensure that our systems are adequate to protect against security breach and effectively safeguard the Companys IT infrastructure, assets, intellectual property, and data. The roles and responsibilities of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee are determined, from time to time, by the Audit Committee. The Cybersecurity Subcommittee meets quarterly with our management team to discuss various matters relating to IT and cybersecurity risks, and our senior management team communicates and coordinates directly with the Cybersecurity Subcommittee in the event of any cybersecurity incident. The Cybersecurity Subcommittee is given the following responsibilities: 36 Oversight of policies, procedures, plans, and execution intended to provide security, confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the information. Oversight of the quality and effectiveness of the Companys policies and procedures with respect to its IT systems; Review and oversight on policies and procedures of the Company in preparation for responding to cybersecurity incidents. Oversight of risks related to IT systems and processes, including privacy, network security and data security, and any internal audits of such systems and processes. Review and oversight of preparation of the Companys public disclosures, including SEC filings, relating to the Companys IT systems, including privacy, network security, and data security, and Report to the Audit Committee and the Board of significant and material cybersecurity incidents. 37 Item 2. Properties As of July 31, 2025, our primary U.S. facility, which houses our research and design function, as well as elements of marketing and administration, is located in Sunnyvale, California. We conduct our manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing and administration in Asia and North America. We lease all properties used in our business except the wafer fabrication facility in Oregon acquired in January 2012. The following table sets forth the location, size and primary use of our principal properties that are material to our business operations: Location Square Footage Primary Use 475 Oakmead Parkway Sunnyvale, California, USA 94085 57,000 Research and development, marketing, sales and administration 3131 Northeast Brookwood Parkway Hillsboro, Oregon, USA 97124 252,950 Wafer fabrication facility Building 1/2 and 8/9, No. 91, Lane 109, Rongkang Road, Songjiang District, Shanghai, China 201614 221,301 Packaging and testing, manufacturing support Building 1,2,3 No.135 Rongkang Road, Songjiang Export Process Zone, Area B, Songjiang, Shanghai,China 201614 250,198 Packaging and testing, manufacturing support We believe that our current facilities are adequate and that additional space will be available on commercially reasonable terms for the foreseeable future. 38 Item 3.Legal Proceedings As previously disclosed, the Company cooperated with the Department of Commerce (DOC) in connection with its administrative investigation regarding certain transactions by the Company. On July 2, 2025, the Company announced that it reached a settlement agreement with DOC to close its investigation, pursuant to which the Company agreed to make a one-time payment of $4.25 million. The resolution does not impact the Companys ongoing business operations. We have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, become involved in legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation, including claims regarding patent and other intellectual property rights as well as improper hiring practices. Irrespective of the validity of such claims, we could incur significant costs in the defense thereof or could suffer adverse effects on our operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 39 PART II Item 5.Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common shares have traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market since April 29, 2010 under the symbol AOSL. As of July 31, 2025, there were approximately 149 holders of record of our common shares, not including those shares held in a street or nominee name. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common share in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans See Item 12 of Part III of this report regarding information about securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Share Performance Graph The following graph compares the total cumulative shareholder return on our common shares with the total cumulative return of the NASDAQ Composite Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index for the last five fiscal years ended June 30, 2025, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such period and the reinvestment of any dividends. The comparisons in the graph below are required by the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common shares. The above Share Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025, the Company did not repurchase any common shares. 40 Item 6.[Reserved] 41 Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of the financial condition and results of our operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Our consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Overview We are a designer, developer, and global supplier of a broad range of discrete power devices, wide band gap power devices, power management ICs and modules, including a wide portfolio of Power MOSFET, SiC, IGBT, IPM, TVS, HV Gate Drivers, Power IC, and Digital Power products. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 2,800 products, and has grown with the introduction of over 100 new products in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, and over 100 and 60 new products in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 949 patents and 64 patent applications in the United States as of June 30, 2025. We also have a total of 961 foreign patents, which primarily were based on our research and development efforts through June 30, 2025. We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced manufacturing and packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal computers, graphic cards, game consoles, home appliances, power tools, smart phones, battery packs, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. During fiscal year 2025, we accelerated the development of new technology platforms which allowed us to introduce 33 medium and high voltage MOSFET products, targeting primarily the power supply markets and industrial markets, as well as 11 low voltage MOSFET products primarily for the communication market. In addition, we introduced 38 Power IC new products for computing applications, communication and consumer markets. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate an 8-inch wafer fabrication facility located in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon Fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development, new product introduction and improve our financial performance. To meet the market demand for the more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. On March 29, 2016, we formed a joint venture (the JV Company) with two investment funds owned by the Municipality of Chongqing (the Chongqing Funds), for the purpose of constructing and operating a power semiconductor packaging, testing and 12-inch wafer fabrication facility (Fab) in the LiangJiang New Area of Chongqing, China. As of December 1, 2021, we owned 50.9%, and the Chongqing Funds owned 49.1% of the equity interest in the JV Company. The joint venture was accounted under the provisions of the consolidation guidance since we had controlling financial interests until December 1, 2021. In December 2021, we sold a portion of our equity interest in the JV Company to a third-party investor, pursuant to which we reduced our ownership from 50.9% to 48.8% of outstanding equity of the JV Company, and reduced our representation on the board of directors of the JV Company. As a result, the JV Company was deconsolidated from our consolidated financial statements effective as of December 2, 2021. From December 2021 to June 2024, we completed several transactions to sell additional equity interests of the JV Company to third-party investors, while the JV Company also issued additional equity interests to new investors that diluted our ownership interest. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2024, the percentage of outstanding JV equity interest beneficially owned by us was further reduced to 42.8%. On December 30, 2024, the JV Company signed an investment agreement with an investor, pursuant to which the investor agreed to invest RMB 500 million (or $68.5 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on December 31, 2024) in the JV Company in exchange for a 7.09% interest. This transaction closed on January 15, 2025, at which time, the percentage of outstanding JV Companys equity interest owned by the Company was reduced to approximately 39.2%. The funding of the investment was agreed to be made in three installments. The JV Company received the first installment of RMB 40 million (or $5.5 million) on December 31, 2024. However, the JV Company has not received the remaining two installments as of the filing date. As of June 30, 2025, the percentage of outstanding JV equity interest beneficially owned by the Company was 39.2%. On July 14, 2025, we entered into an equity transfer agreement with a strategic investor to sell approximately 20.3% of outstanding equity interest in the JV Company for an aggregate cash consideration of $150 million to be paid in four installments, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. 42 We expect to receive all four installment payments and close the transaction prior to the end of calendar year 2025. We believe this sale will provide additional and significant capital for us to continue investment in technology, R&D projects and acquisition of assets complementary to our business operations, which will facilitate and accelerate our efforts to develop and distribute innovative and diverse power semiconductor products to customers worldwide. In addition, the JV Company will continue to provide us with significant level of foundry capacity to enable us to develop and manufacture our products. Pursuant to an agreement with the JV Company and other shareholders of the JV Company, the JV Company is committed to provide us with a specified level of monthly wafer production capacity. Other Factors Affecting Our Performance The global, regional economic and PC market conditions: Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, any significant changes in global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the PC markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs. Therefore, a substantial decline in the PC market could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. The PC markets have experienced a modest global decline in recent years due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material impact on the demand for our products. In addition, the PC market may be affected by evolving laws and regulations governing international trade, such as export control regulations. A decline of the PC market may have a negative impact on our revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. We have executed and continue to execute strategies to diversify our product portfolio, penetrate other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial markets, and improve gross margins and profit by implementing cost control measures. While making efforts to reduce our reliance on the computing market, we continue to support our computing business and capitalize on the opportunities in this market with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy to gain market share. Manufacturing costs and capacity availability: Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors including our manufacturing costs, utilization of our manufacturing facilities, the product mixes of our sales, pricing of wafers from third party foundries and pricing of semiconductor raw materials. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs at our Shanghai facilities and our Oregon Fab. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience wafer capacity constraints, particularly at third party foundries, that may prevent us from meeting fully the demand of our customers. While we can mitigate these constraints by increasing and re-allocating capacity at our own fab, we may not be able to do so quickly or at sufficient level, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. We also rely on third parties to provide foundry capacity to manufacture our products, including the JV Company, therefore it is important that we maintain continuous access to such capacity, which may not be available at sufficient level or at pricing terms favorable. If these third-party foundries, including the JV Company, take actions or make decisions that prevent us from accessing required capacity, our operations may be adversely affected. Erosion and fluctuation of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect our average selling prices of our existing products to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling price by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. These strategies may cause the average selling price of our products to fluctuate significantly from time to time, thereby affecting our financial performance and profitability. Product introductions and customers product requirements: Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements, including our Tier 1 customers who often have stringent requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and seek and acquire design wins. If we were to fail to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet customers specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and continue to expand our serviceable markets, then we would lose market share and our financial performance would be adversely affected. Distributor ordering patterns, customer demand and seasonality: Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlook and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders 43 placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. Typically, we generate lower revenue during the first quarter of the calendar year as compared to other quarters. However, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the changing PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. Furthermore, our revenue may be impacted by the level of demand from our major customers due to factors outside of our control. If these major customers experience significant decline in the demand of their products, encounter difficulties or defects in their products, or otherwise fail to execute their sales and marketing strategies successfully, it may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from power discrete products. Because our products typically have three-year to five-year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third parties through one of our in-house facilities. Our product revenue is reported net of the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers or original equipment manufacturers, we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In certain situations, we will grant price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, forecasted distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. In February 2023, we entered into a license agreement with a customer to license our proprietary SiC technology and provided 24-months of engineering and development services for a total fee of $45.0 million. The license and development fee required significant integration to create a combined output to the customer and was determined to be one performance obligation and was recognized over the 24 months during which we performed the engineering and development services. We use the input method to measure progress and recognize revenue, based on the effort expended relative to the estimated total effort to satisfy the performance obligation. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025, 2024 and 2023, we recorded $13.8 million, $21.2 million and $9.9 million of license and development revenue, respectively. As of June 30, 2025, all revenue has been recognized and all consideration has been received associated with the license agreement, therefore we no longer have any obligations under the license agreement. We also entered into an accompanying supply agreement to provide limited wafer supply to the customer. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and costs associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and valuation of inventories. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to the market conditions, our goal is to make them less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volume of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. 44 Research and development expenses.Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses.Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs, other expenses for general and administrative functions, and costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services, as well as impairment of long-lived assets. We review all long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that these assets may not be recoverable. When evaluating long-lived assets, if we conclude that the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets are less than their carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Bermuda Corporate Income Tax for Tax Years Beginning in 2025 The Company is subject to income tax expense or benefit based upon pre-tax income or loss reported in the consolidated statements of income (loss) and the provisions of currently enacted tax laws. The parent company is incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and is subject to Bermuda law with respect to taxation. Under current Bermuda law, the Company is not subject to any income or capital gains taxes in Bermuda. As we have previously disclosed, the Government of Bermuda announced in December 2023 that it enacted the Corporate Income Tax Act 2023, potentially imposing a 15% corporate income tax (CIT) on Bermuda companies that are within the scope of the CIT, that will be effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2025. In particular, the CIT applies to multinational companies with annual revenue of 750 million euros or more in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent entity for at least two of the four fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year when the CIT may apply. The Company did not generate more than 750 million euro revenue in any of the four fiscal years before the tax year starting July 1, 2025. The Company continues to monitor and assess if and when it may be within the scope of the CIT. If we become subject to the Bermuda CIT, we may be subject to additional income taxes, which may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our overall business. One Big Beautiful Bill Act, Enacted July 4, 2025 On July 4, 2025, H.R. 1, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (the OBBB), was signed into law. This includes significant changes to the federal corporate tax provisions and extends certain otherwise expiring provisions of the 45 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The key provisions include allowing immediate expensing of domestic research and experimental expenditures, new limitations on interest expense deductibility, reinstatement of 100% bonus depreciation for qualified assets placed in service in the United States after January 19, 2025 as well as changes to the calculation of taxable income resulting from the foreign derived intangible income deduction. ASC 740 Income Taxes requires the effects of changes in tax rates and laws to be recognized in the period in which the relevant legislation is enacted. The OBBB was enacted after the June 30, 2025 year end. As of June 30, 2025, we are continuing to assess the potential impact of the OBBB. Equity method investment loss We use the equity method of accounting when we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but we do not have control, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, over the operating and financial policies of the company. Effective December 2, 2021, we reduced our equity interest in the JV Company below 50% of outstanding equity ownership and experienced a loss of control of the JV Company. As a result, we record our investment under equity method of accounting. Since we are unable to obtain accurate financial information from the JV Company in a timely manner, we record our share of earnings or losses of the JV Company on a one quarter lag. We record our interest in the net earnings of the equity method investee, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, within earnings or loss from equity interests in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Profits or losses related to intra-entity sales with the equity method investee are eliminated until realized by the investor or investee. Basis differences represent differences between the cost of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them. Equity method goodwill is not amortized. Instead the total equity method investment balance, including equity method goodwill, is tested for impairment. On December 30, 2024, the JV Company signed an investment agreement with an investor, pursuant to which the investor agreed to invest RMB 500 million (or $68.5 million based on the currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. Dollar on December 31, 2024) in the JV Company in exchange for a 7.09% interest. This transaction closed on January 15, 2025, at which time, the percentage of outstanding JV Companys equity interest owned by the Company was reduced to approximately 39.2%. We recorded a gain of $0.5 million on the change of equity interest in the JV Company, which was included in the equity method investment loss line in the consolidated statements of operations. The funding of the investment was agreed to be made in three installments. The JV Company received the first installment of RMB 40 million (or $5.5 million) on December 31, 2024. However, the JV Company has not received the remaining two installments as of the filing date. On July 14, 2025, we entered into an equity transfer agreement (Agreement) with the investor to sell approximately 20.3% of outstanding equity interest in the JV Company for an aggregate cash consideration of $150 million. We identified the negotiations of the equity transfer agreement throughout the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025 as an impairment indicator and performed a quantitative impairment test as of June 30, 2025. Based on the implied valuation of the JV Company per the transaction price in the equity transfer agreement, the fair value of the equity method investment was determined to be lower than its carrying value, and a $76.8 million other-than-temporary impairment of the equity method investment was recognized as of June 30, 2025. The impairment loss is recorded within equity method investment loss in the consolidated statement of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. Results of Operations A discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025 to June 30, 2024 is included below. For a discussion and comparison of the results of our operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 filed with the SEC on August 23, 2024. 46 Operating results The following tables set forth our results of operations and as a percentage of revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 696,162 $ 657,274 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold (1) 535,158 485,356 76.9 % 73.8 % Gross profit 161,004 171,918 23.1 % 26.2 % Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 94,265 89,940 13.5 % 13.7 % Selling, general and administrative (1) 95,175 85,734 13.7 % 13.0 % Total operating expenses 189,440 175,674 27.2 % 26.7 % Operating loss (28,436) (3,756) (4.1) % (0.5) % Other loss, net (1,004) (73) (0.1) % % Interest income 4,283 5,168 0.6 % 0.8 % Interest expenses (2,639) (3,982) (0.4) % (0.6) % Net loss before income taxes and equity method investment loss (27,796) (2,643) (4.0) % (0.3) % Income tax expense (benefit) (8,625) 3,649 (1.2) % 0.6 % Net loss before equity method investment loss (19,171) (6,292) (2.8) % (0.9) % Equity method investment loss (77,805) (4,789) (11.1) % (0.7) % Net loss $ (96,976) $ (11,081) (13.9) % (1.6) % (1) Includes share-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 4,224 $ 3,434 0.6 % 0.5 % Research and development 8,123 5,210 1.2 % 0.8 % Selling, general and administrative 17,222 12,997 2.5 % 2.0 % $ 29,569 $ 21,641 4.3 % 3.3 % 47 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 449,507 $ 426,146 $ 23,361 5.5 % Power IC 229,926 205,778 24,148 11.7 % Packaging and testing services and other 2,888 4,119 (1,231) (29.9) % License and development services 13,841 21,231 (7,390) (34.8) % $ 696,162 $ 657,274 $ 38,888 5.9 % The following is a summary of revenue by end market: Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Computing $ 324,127 $ 282,411 $ 41,716 14.8 % Consumer 102,309 106,364 (4,055) (3.8) % Communication 123,868 114,186 9,682 8.5 % Power Supply and Industrial 129,129 128,963 166 0.1 % Packaging and testing services and other 2,888 4,119 (1,231) (29.9) % License and development services 13,841 21,231 (7,390) (34.8) % $ 696,162 $ 657,274 $ 38,888 5.9 % Total revenue was $696.2 million for fiscal year 2025, an increase of $38.9 million, or 5.9%, as compared to $657.3 million for fiscal year 2024. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $23.4 million and $24.1 million in sales of power discrete products and power IC products, respectively, offset by a decrease of $1.2 million in sales of packaging and testing services and other, as well as a decrease of $7.4 million in license and development services. The increase in power discrete and power IC product sales was primarily due to a 17.1% increase in unit shipments, offset by an 8.0% decrease in average selling price as compared to last fiscal year due to a shift in product mix. The decrease in revenue from packaging and testing services and other for fiscal year 2025 as compared to the last fiscal year was primarily due to decreased demand. The decrease in license and development services for the fiscal year 2025 was related to the license agreement with a customer to license our proprietary SiC technology and provided 24-month engineering and development services, which was completed in February 2025. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 535,158 $ 485,356 $ 49,802 10.3 % Percentage of revenue 76.9 % 73.8 % Gross profit $ 161,004 $ 171,918 $ (10,914) (6.3) % Percentage of revenue 23.1 % 26.2 % 48 Cost of goods sold was $535.2 million for fiscal year 2025, an increase of $49.8 million, or 10.3%, as compared to $485.4 million for fiscal year 2024. The increase was primarily due to 5.9% increase in revenue. Gross margin decreased by 3.1 percentage points to 23.1% for fiscal year 2025, as compared to 26.2% for fiscal year 2024. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to average selling pricing erosion, higher material costs and less favorable product mix during fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. We expect our gross margin to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of variations in our product mix, semiconductor wafer and raw material pricing, manufacturing labor cost and general economic and PC market conditions. Research and development expenses Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 94,265 $ 89,940 $ 4,325 4.8 % Research and development expenses were $94.3 million for fiscal year 2025, an increase of $4.3 million, or 4.8%, as compared to $89.9 million for fiscal year 2024. The increase was primarily attributable to a $2.9 million increase in share-based compensation as a result of a modification of market-based restricted stock units in August 2024, a $0.9 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expense mainly due to increased headcount, higher medical insurance expenses and higher severance expenses, a $0.3 million increase in product prototyping engineering expense as a result of increased engineering activities, as well as a $0.1 million increase in office rent expenses. We continue to evaluate and invest resources in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities. We believe the investment in research and development is important to meet our strategic objectives. Selling, general and administrative expenses Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 95,175 $ 85,734 $ 9,441 11.0 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $95.2 million for fiscal year 2025, an increase of $9.4 million, or 11.0%, as compared to $85.7 million for fiscal year 2024. The increase was primarily attributable to a one-time settlement fee of $4.3 million for the export control investigation case, a $4.2 million increase in share-based compensation expense as a result of a modification of market-based restricted stock units in August 2024, and a $2.4 million increase in employee compensation and benefits expenses mainly due to merit-based compensation increases for certain personnel, higher insurance expenses and higher severance expenses, offset by a $0.8 million decrease in audit fees, a $0.7 million decrease in consulting fees, a $0.5 million decrease in marketing related expenses, and a $0.6 million decrease in allocation expenses. In addition, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, we identified certain purchased manufacturing equipment that we were unable to meet our production process requirements. Because the equipment had no alternative uses, we recorded an impairment of $1.0 million related to such equipment. Other loss, net Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Other loss, net $ (1,004) $ (73) $ (931) 1,275.3 % Other loss, net increased by $0.9 million in fiscal year 2025 as compared to the last fiscal year primarily due to increase in foreign currency exchange loss as a result of the appreciation of RMB and Taiwan dollar against the U.S. dollar. Interest income 49 Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest income $ 4,283 $ 5,168 $ (885) (17.1) % Interest income decreased by $0.9 million in fiscal year 2025 as compared to fiscal year 2024 primarily due to a result of lower interest rate and lower cash balance during fiscal year 2025. Interest expenses Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest expenses $ (2,639) $ (3,982) $ 1,343 (33.7) % Interest expenses decreased by $1.3 million in fiscal year 2025 as compared to fiscal year 2024 primarily due to less outstanding loan balance during fiscal year 2025. Equity method investment loss Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Equity method investment loss $ (77,805) $ (4,789) $ (73,016) 1,524.7 % On December 30, 2024, the JV Company signed an investment agreement with an investor, pursuant to which the investor agreed to invest RMB 500 million (or $68.5 million based on currency exchange rate between RMB and U.S. dollar on December 31, 2024) in the JV Company. This transaction closed on January 15, 2025, at which time, the percentage of outstanding JV Companys equity interest owned by the Company was reduced to approximately 39.2%. As such, we recorded a gain of $0.5 million on the change of equity interest in the JV Company during fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. On July 14, 2025, we entered into an equity transfer agreement with the investor to sell approximately 20.3% of outstanding equity interest in the JV Company for an aggregate cash consideration of $150 million. We identified the negotiations of the equity transfer agreement throughout the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025 as an impairment indicator and performed a quantitative impairment test as of June 30, 2025. Based on the implied valuation of the JV Company per the transaction price in the equity transfer agreement, the fair value of the equity method investment was determined to be lower than its carrying value, and a $76.8 million other-than-temporary impairment of the equity method investment was recognized as of June 30, 2025. Income tax expense Year Ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 FY25 vs. FY24 (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense (benefit) $ (8,625) $ 3,649 $ (12,274) (336.4) % Income tax expense (benefit) for fiscal years 2025 and 2024 was $(8.6) million and $3.6 million, respectively. Income tax expense decreased by $12.3 million in fiscal year 2025 as compared to fiscal year 2024. The decrease was primarily related to the tax benefits reported in connection with the Companys investment in the JV Company. In fiscal year 2025, the Company reported a $77.8 million equity method investment loss, generating a $12.5 million tax benefit in fiscal year 2025 as compared to a $4.8 million equity method investment loss in fiscal year 2024 that generated a $0.7 million tax benefit in fiscal year 2024. Excluding the $12.5 million tax benefit related to the $77.8 million of equity method loss in fiscal 2025, the fiscal 2025 tax 50 would be $3.9 million of income tax expense. The remaining difference in tax expense between fiscal years 2025 and 2024 was primarily due to changes in various book-tax permanent differences, discrete tax adjustments between the two years, and changes in the mix of earnings in various geographic jurisdictions between the current year and the same period of last year. The income tax benefit of $8.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2025 also included a $0.2 million discrete tax benefit and the income tax expense of $3.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 included a $0.2 million discrete tax expense. Excluding the discrete income tax items, the effective tax rate for the years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 was 30.4% and (130.6%), respectively. 51 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to grow our business. To date, we finance our operations and capital expenditures primarily through funds generated from operations and borrowings under our term loans, financing lease and other debt agreements. In September 2021, Jireh Semiconductor Incorporated (Jireh), one of the Companys wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into a financing arrangement agreement with a company (Lender) for the lease and purchase of a machinery equipment manufactured by a supplier. This agreement has a 5 years term, after which Jireh has the option to purchase the equipment for $1. The implied interest rate was 4.75% per annum, which was adjustable based on every five basis point increase in 60-month U.S. Treasury Notes, until the final installation and acceptance of the equipment. The total purchase price of this equipment was Euro 12.0 million. In April 2021, Jireh made a down payment of Euro 6.0 million, representing 50% of the total purchase price of the equipment, to the supplier. In June 2022, the equipment was delivered to Jireh after Lender paid 40% of the total purchase price, for Euro 4.8 million, to the supplier on behalf of Jireh. In September 2022, Lender paid the remaining 10% payment for the total purchase price and reimbursed Jireh for the 50% down payment, after the installation and configuration of the equipment. The title of the equipment was transferred to Lender following such payment. The agreement was amended with fixed implied interest rate of 7.51% and monthly payment of principal and interest effective in October 2022. Other terms remain the same. In addition, Jireh purchased hardware for the machine under this financing arrangement. The purchase price of this hardware was $0.2 million. The financing arrangement is secured by this equipment and other equipment which had a carrying amount of $12.1 million as of June 30, 2025. As of June 30, 2025, the outstanding balance of this debt financing was $6.5 million. On August 18, 2021, Jireh entered into a term loan agreement with a financial institution (the Bank) in an amount up to $45.0 million for the purpose of expanding and upgrading the Companys fabrication facility located in Oregon. The obligation under the loan agreement is secured by substantially all assets of Jireh and guaranteed by the Company. The agreement has a term of 5.5 years and matures on February 16, 2027. Jireh is required to make consecutive quarterly payments of principal and interest. The loan accrues interest based on the SOFR plus the applicable margin based on the outstanding balance of the loan. This agreement contains customary restrictive covenants and includes certain financial covenants that the Company is required to maintain. Jireh drew down $45.0 million on February 16, 2022 with the first payment of principal beginning in October 2022. As of June 30, 2025, Jireh was in compliance with these covenants and the outstanding balance of this loan was $20.3 million. In August 2025, the Company paid the outstanding balance in full. On August 9, 2019, one of the Companys wholly-owned subsidiaries (the Borrower) entered into a factoring agreement with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (HSBC), whereby the Borrower assigns certain of its accounts receivable with recourse. This factoring agreement allows the Borrower to borrow up to 70% of the net amount of its eligible accounts receivable with a maximum amount of $30.0 million. The interest rate is based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), plus 2.01% per annum. The Company is the guarantor for this agreement. The Company is accounting for this transaction as a secured borrowing under the Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets guidance. In addition, any cash held in the restricted bank account controlled by HSBC has a legal right of offset against the borrowing. This agreement, with certain financial covenants required, has no expiration date. On August 11, 2021, the Borrower signed an agreement with HSBC to decrease the borrowing maximum amount to $8.0 million with certain financial covenants required. Other terms remain the same. As of June 30, 2025, there was no outstanding balance for this loan. The Chinese government imposes certain currency exchange controls on cash transfers out of China. Regulations in China permit foreign owned entities to freely convert the RMB into foreign currency for transactions that fall under the current account, which includes trade related receipts and payments, interests, and dividend payments. Accordingly, subject to the review and verification of the underlying transaction documents and supporting documents by the account banks in China, our Chinese subsidiaries may use RMB to purchase foreign exchange currency for settlement of such current account transactions without the pre-approval from SAFE or its provincial branch. Pursuant to applicable regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. A Chinese company must pay 10% of its annual after-tax profits to fund its statutory reserve fund unless it has reached 50% of the registered capital of the company. Where the accumulative amount of the companys statutory reserve is not enough to make up for the losses of the previous year, the current years profits must first be used to make up for the losses before the statutory reserve is accrued. While SAFE approval is not statutorily required for eligible dividend payments to the foreign parent, in practice, before making the dividend payment, the account bank may seek SAFEs opinion with respect to a dividend payment if the payment involves a relatively large amount, which may delay the dividend payment depending on the then overall status of cross-border payments and receipts of China. Transactions that involve conversion of RMB into foreign currency in relation to foreign direct investments and provision of debt financings in China are classified as capital account transactions. Examples of capital account transactions include repatriations of investments by foreign owners and repayments of loan principal to foreign lenders. "Capital account" 52 transactions require prior approval from SAFE or its provincial branch or an account bank delegated by SAFE to convert a remittance into a foreign currency, such as U.S. dollars, and transmit the foreign currency outside of China. As a result of this and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our China subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us, and such restriction may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient liquidity to fund our operations or other expenditures. As of June 30, 2025 and 2024, such restricted portion amounted to approximately $93.9 million and $93.5 million, or 11.4% and 10.5%, of our total consolidated net assets attributable to the Company, respectively. As disclosed above, in July 2025, we entered into an equity transfer agreement with a third-party strategic investor to sell approximately 20.3% of outstanding equity interest in the JV Company for an aggregate cash consideration of $150 million to be paid in four installments, provided that certain conditions are satisfied. We expect to receive all four payments by the end of calendar year 2025, and the majority of the consideration, approximately $94 million, is expected to be paid in the first installment, which we anticipate to receive during the quarter ending September 30, 2025. We plan to use the cash proceeds from the sale to invest in technology, R&D projects and acquisition of assets complimentary to our business operations. See also Risk FactorsOur recent sale of equity interest in the JV Company is subject to certain closing conditions, and if the conditions are not met, we may not receive a portion or any of the cash proceeds from the sale. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. In the long-term, we may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash As of June 30, 2025 and 2024, we had $153.5 million and $175.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily consisted of cash on hand, restricted cash and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Of the $153.5 million and $175.5 million cash and cash equivalents, $40.7 million and $55.0 million, respectively, were deposited with financial institutions outside the United States. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 29,668 $ 25,710 Net cash used in investing activities (36,441) (35,744) Net cash used in financing activities (15,496) (9,903) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 227 (126) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (22,042) $ (20,063) Cash flows from operating activities For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, the $4.0 million increase in cash provided by operating activities compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to an increase of net loss of $85.9 million and an increase of non-cash expenses of $78.3 million, a decrease of $18.6 million in inventory purchases, an increase of accounts payable of $15.7 million primarily due to timing of payment, an increase of $6.9 million in accrued and other liabilities, an increase of $2.9 million in deferred revenue, an increase of $1.6 million in income tax payable, offset by an increase of $32.1 million in accounts receivable due to timing of billings and collection of payments, and an increase of $2.4 million in other current and long term assets due to increase in advance payments to suppliers. Cash flows from investing activities For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, the $0.7 million increase in cash used in investing activities compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to a $0.1 million increase in purchases of property and equipment, a $0.3 53 million decrease in the proceeds of sales of property and equipment, as well as a $0.3 million decrease in government grants related to equipment. Cash flows from financing activities For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, the $5.6 million increase in cash used in financing activities compared to the fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to $2.3 million decrease in proceeds from exercise of stock options and the Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP), and $3.0 million increase in withholding tax paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement. Commitments See Note 15 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of commitments. 54 Critical Accounting Estimates General Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Management believes it is unlikely that applying other estimates and assumptions would have a material impact on the financial statements. We consider the following accounting policies to be those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and that require a higher degree of judgment. Revenue recognition We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. We recognize product revenue at a point in time when product is shipped to the customer, as determined by the agreed upon shipping terms, net of estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to certain distributors. We present revenue net of sales taxes and any similar assessments. Our standard payment terms range from 30 to 60 days. We sell our products primarily to distributors, who in turn sell the products globally to various end customers. Sales to most distributors are made under terms allowing certain price adjustments of the Companys products held in their inventory or upon sale to their end customers. Revenue from sales to distributors is recognized upon the transfer of control to the distributor. In the ordinary course of business, our distributors may need to sell our products to end customers at prices below the standard distribution price in order to remain competitive and secure sales. After the distributors sell the Companys products to their end customers, the distributors submit a ship-and-debit price adjustment claim to the Company to adjust the distributors cost from the standard price to the pre-approved lower price. After the Company verifies that the claim was pre-approved, a credit memo is issued to the distributors for the ship-and-debit claim. In determining the transaction price, the Company considers ship-and-debit price adjustments to be variable consideration. The Company estimates the variable consideration of the allowance for price adjustments at the time revenue is recognized. Estimating the allowance for price adjustments requires management to make certain assumptions including distributor inventory levels, forecasted distributor selling prices, distributor margins and future demand for products. These assumptions could be affected by current and future economic and market conditions. We also allow stock rotation returns from certain distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by distributors during a specified period. We record an allowance for stock rotation returns based on historical returns, expected sales volumes and individual distributor agreements. Allowance for price adjustments is recorded against accounts receivable and the provision for stock rotation rights is included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Valuation of inventories We evaluate our inventory for salability, obsolescence and other available applicable information. When evaluating the adequacy of our provision for excess and obsolete inventory, we identify excess and obsolete products and also analyze historical usage, forecasted demand, and current economic trends. Demand for our products can fluctuate significantly from period to period. A significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by frequent new product development and technological changes that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. Also our estimates of forecasted demand and judgement to determine excess inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the reduction to the total carrying value of our inventory for excess and obsolete inventory. If actual economic trends are less favorable than those forecasted, additional future inventory write-downs may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. Inventory adjustments, once established, are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold or scrapped. If actual economic trends are more favorable than expected and the products that have previously been written down are sold, our gross margin would be favorably impacted. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition. 55