ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Item 2 constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Companys management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides certain safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made pursuant to the Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to its forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words AOS, the Company, we, us and our refer to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited and its subsidiaries, except the JV Company. This managements discussion should be read in conjunction with the managements discussion included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 26, 2016. Overview We are a designer, developer and global supplier of a broad portfolio of power semiconductors. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 1,600 products, and has grown significantly with the introduction of over 90 new products during each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we introduced an additional 24 new products. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 635 patents and 198 patent applications in the United States as of September 30, 2016 . We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal computers, flat panel TVs, LED lighting, smart phones, battery packs, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for TVs, computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development and new product introduction as well as to improve our financial performance in the long run. To meet the market demand for more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. On March 29, 2016, we entered into a joint venture contract (the JV Agreement) with two investment funds owned by the Municipality of Chongqing (the Chongqing Funds), pursuant to which we and the Chongqing Funds formed a joint venture, (the JV Company), for the purpose of constructing a power semiconductor packaging, testing and wafer fabrication facility in the Liangjiang New Area of Chongqing, China (the JV Transaction). The total initial capitalization of the JV Company is $330.0 million (the Initial Capitalization). The Initial Capitalization will be completed in stages commencing on the incorporation of the JV Company. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016, the Chongqing Funds contributed $33.0 million of initial capital in cash and we fulfilled our obligations to contribute certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal titles of such equipment to the JV Company. We own 51%, and the Chongqing Funds owns 49%, of the equity interest in the JV Company. If both parties agree that the termination of the JV Company is the best interest of each party or the JV Company is bankrupt or insolvent where either party may terminate early, after paying the debts of the JV Company, the remaining assets of the JV Company shall be paid to the Chongqing Funds to cover the principal of its total paid-in contributions plus the interest at 10% simple annual rate prior to distributing the balance of the JV Company's assets to us. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016, we recorded $0.9 million in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, representing 49% of the net loss incurred in the JV Company, which was attributable to operating expenses and depreciation expenses offset by equipment lease income and interest income. We expect the JV Company to commence its initial production in the first half of fiscal 2018. Over the long term, the JV Company plans to construct a 12-inch wafer fabrication facility for the 18 production of power semiconductors. We expect the joint venture to deliver significant cost savings, enhance our market positions in China, and drive meaningful improvements in working capital and capital expenditures. During the three months ended September 30, 2016, we released AOZ5166QI-01, the high efficiency power modules which are fully compliant with Intel's DrMOS specifications. This new device enables high power density voltage regulator solutions ideal for servers, work stations, graphic cards and high-end desktop PC applications. We also announced the addition of AOK30B135W1 to its 1350V AlphaIGBT family. The new AOK30B135W1 has been optimized to deliver high performance by reducing switching loss in soft-switching home appliance applications such as induction cooking, rice cookers, and inverter-based microwave ovens. In addition, we introduced two new products based on its high efficiency XS-PairFET package and latest low voltage technology. The AOE6932 and AOE6936 are the newest extensions to the flagship device, AOE6930, that was released in 2015. Both products are newly optimized for enhanced driving and switching performance. Factors affecting our performance Our performance is affected by several key factors, including the following: The global, regional economic and PC market conditions : Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, a deterioration of the global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. In particular, because a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the personal computing ("PC") markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs, a significant decline or downturn in the PC market can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue from the PC market accounted for approximately 35.9% and 46.0% of our total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Since the beginning of calendar year 2013, we have experienced a significant global decline in the PC market due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material negative impact on the demand for our products, revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. In response to this trend, we executed and continue to execute strategies to diversify our portfolio of products and expand into other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial market segments, and to improve gross margin and profit by implementing cost control measures. While making progress in reducing our reliance on the PC market, we continue to support our computing business and capitalize on opportunities with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy. As we develop and sell new products that serve more diversified markets, we expect sales based on the PC market, as a percentage of the total revenue to decline. If the rate of decline in the PC market is faster than our expectation, or if we cannot successfully diversify or introduce new products to offset the decline in the PC market, we may not be able to alleviate its negative impact on our operating results. Manufacturing costs : Our gross margin may be affected by our manufacturing costs, including utilization of our manufacturing facilities, pricing of wafers from third party foundries and semiconductor raw materials, which may fluctuate from time to time largely due to the market demand and supply. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs associated with our packaging and testing facilities and our Oregon fab. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. In addition, we expect that in the long term our joint venture agreement with the Chongqing Funds will reduce our costs of manufacturing. However, our manufacturing costs may increase in the short term prior to the commencement of operation of the JV Company, because we may be required to incur additional costs to acquire packaging and testing capacity in order make up for the reduced capacity during the period in which we transfer and relocate our equipment from Shanghai to Chongqing. Erosion of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect our average selling prices of existing products to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling price by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. Product introductions and customers' product requirements: Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and obtain design wins. Our failure to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet customers' specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and our inability to continue to expand our serviceable markets, could adversely affect our financial performance, including loss of market share. We 19 expect our joint venture with the Chongqing Funds to commence operation in the first half of fiscal 2018, and we believe that the joint venture will increase and diversify our customer base, particularly in China, in the long term. However, there is no guarantee that the joint venture will commence timely or at all. Even if we are able to commence operation, we may not be successful in acquiring a sufficient number of new customers to offset the additional costs due to various factors, including but are not limited to, competition from other semiconductor companies in the region, our lack of history and prior relationships with customers as a new entrant, difficulties in executing our joint venture strategies, lack of control over our operations and the general economic conditions in Chongqing and China. Distributor ordering patterns, customer demand and seasonality : Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlook and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. In recent periods, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the decline of the PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. Furthermore, our revenue may be impacted by the level of demand from our major customers due to factors outside of our control. If these major customers experience significant decline in the demand of their products, encounter difficulties or defects in their products, or otherwise fail to execute their sales and marketing strategies successfully, it may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Historically, a majority of our revenue was derived from power discrete products and a smaller amount was derived from power IC products. Because our products typically have three to five year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third-parties through one of our subsidiaries. Our product revenue includes the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers ("ODMs") or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In these situations, we will grant price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and cost associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and inventory reserves. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. We implemented a process to improve our factory capacity utilization rates by transferring more wafer production to our Oregon fab and reducing our reliance on outside foundries. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to market conditions, our goal is to make such rates less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volumes of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses 20 Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. Research and development expenses. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs and other expenses for general and administrative functions as well as costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC market. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: Long-lived assets or asset groups are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset might not be recoverable. The recoverability of an asset or asset group is assessed by determining if the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life. The impairment loss is measured based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Results of Operations The following tables set forth statements of operations, also expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. 21 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 97,362 $ 81,439 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 75,418 66,378 77.5 % 81.5 % Gross profit 21,944 15,061 22.5 % 18.5 % Operating expenses Research and development 7,019 6,164 7.2 % 7.6 % Selling, general and administrative 11,183 9,497 11.5 % 11.7 % Total operating expenses 18,202 15,661 18.7 % 19.3 % Operating income (loss) 3,742 (600 ) 3.8 % (0.8 )% Interest income and other income (loss), net (49 ) (151 ) (0.1 )% (0.2 )% Interest expense (26 ) (10 ) % % Net Income (loss) before income taxes 3,667 (761 ) 3.7 % (1.0 )% Income tax expense 1,237 1,214 1.3 % 1.5 % Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interest 2,430 (1,975 ) 2.4 % (2.5 )% Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (877 ) (0.9 )% % Net income (loss) attributable to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited $ 3,307 $ (1,975 ) 3.3 % (2.5 )% Share-based compensation expense was allocated as follow: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 195 $ 131 0.2 % 0.2 % Research and development 360 193 0.4 % 0.2 % Selling, general and administrative 761 465 0.8 % 0.6 % Total $ 1,316 $ 789 1.4 % 1.0 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 71,428 $ 59,912 $ 11,516 19.2 % Power IC 22,998 17,514 5,484 31.3 % Packaging and testing services 2,936 4,013 (1,077 ) (26.8 )% $ 97,362 $ 81,439 $ 15,923 19.6 % Total revenue was $97.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $15.9 million , or 19.6% , as compared to $81.4 million for the same quarter last year. The increase consisted of $11.5 million and $5.5 million in sales of power discrete products and power IC products, respectively, partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in sales of packaging and testing services. The increase in power discrete and power IC products was primarily due to a 2.8% increase in average selling price as compared to the same quarter last year due to a shift in product mix, as well as a 18.7% increase in unit shipments. The 22 decrease in packaging and testing services revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to reduced demand as a result of the decline in PC market. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 75,418 $ 66,378 $ 9,040 13.6 % Percentage of revenue 77.5 % 81.5 % Gross profit $ 21,944 $ 15,061 $ 6,883 45.7 % Percentage of revenue 22.5 % 18.5 % Cost of goods sold was $75.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $9.0 million , or 13.6% , as compared to $66.4 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily due to increased unit shipments. The increase was partially offset by the overall manufacturing cost reduction due to improved factory utilization as compared to the same quarter last year. Gross margin increased by 4.0% point to 22.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to 18.5% for the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased average selling prices due to a shift in product mix and higher factory utilization during the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Research and development expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 7,019 $ 6,164 $ 855 13.9 % Research and development expenses were $7.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $0.9 million , or 13.9% , as compared to $6.2 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $0.4 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expense primarily due to increased headcount and higher bonus expenses, a $0.2 million increase in product prototyping engineering expenses as a result of increased engineering activities, as well as a $0.2 million increase in share-based compensation expense as a result of a decrease in cancellation of stock options and award in the current quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 11,183 $ 9,497 $ 1,686 17.8 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $11.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $1.7 million , or 17.8% , as compared to $9.5 million for the same quarter last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million increase in employee compensation and benefits expenses primarily due to increased headcount and higher bonus expenses, a $0.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense as a result of a decrease of cancellation in stock options and award, a $0.1 million increase in consulting fees primarily due to increased professional services costs and recruiting costs, as well as a $0.1 million increase in marketing and commission expenses due to increased sales and marketing activities during the current quarter. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016. we recognized $0.4 million of expenses related to our joint venture, including noncontrolling interest, in our general and administrative expenses in connection with personnel and benefit related costs, outside professional services and travel expenses. 23 Interest income and expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Interest income and other income (loss), net $ (49 ) $ (151 ) $ 102 (67.5 )% Interest income and other, net was primarily related to interest earned from cash and cash equivalents, as well as foreign exchange gains (losses). The decrease in interest income and other during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to lower foreign exchange losses as a result of recent appreciation of USD against RMB, offset by higher interest income due to increase in average cash balances. Income tax expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense $ 1,237 $ 1,214 $ 23 1.9 % We recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.2 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was slightly higher than the tax expense for the same quarter last year primarily due to the changes in the mix of earnings in various geographic jurisdictions between the current and same quarter of last year. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to grow of our business. Currently, we financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through funds generated from operations. In March 2016, we entered into the JV Agreement with an initial capitalization of $330.0 million. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016, the Chongqing Funds contributed $33.0 million of initial capital in cash and we fulfilled our obligation to contribute of certain packaging equipment as required by the JV Agreement by transferring the legal titles of such equipment to the JV Company. Pursuant to the JV Agreement, within one year from June 30, 2016, we expect to contribute certain intangible assets and cash of $10.0 million pursuant to the terms of the JV Agreement. Over the long term, the JV Company plans to construct a 12-inch wafer fabrication facility for the manufacturing or semiconductor products. In April 2015, our Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase in the remaining available amount under the Companys then effective share repurchase program from approximately $17.8 million to $50.0 million. The repurchases may be made from the open market pursuant to a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 trading plan (as amended, the "Repurchase Trading Plan") or through privately negotiated transactions. The amount and timing of any repurchases depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the trading price, volume and availability of our common shares, applicable legal requirements, our business and financial conditions and general market environment. There is no guarantee that such repurchases under the Program will enhance the value of our shares. In June 2015, we commenced a modified Dutch auction tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to repurchase an aggregate of $30.0 million of our outstanding common shares with a price range between $8.50 and $9.20 per share. In July 2015, we completed the Tender Offer in which we purchased 3,296,703 shares of its common shares, at a purchase price of $9.10 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $30.0 million, excluding fees and expenses relating to the Tender Offer. These shares represented approximately 12.53% of the total number of the Company's common shares issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2015. The Tender Offer was part of the $50.0 million share repurchase program approved by the Board on April 15, 2015. 24 During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we did not repurchase any shares pursuant to the share repurchase program. Since the inception of the program in 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of 5,723,093 shares from the open market for a total cost of $50.8 million , at an average price of $8.87 per share, excluding fees and related expenses. As of September 30, 2016 , approximately $6.4 million remained available under the share repurchase program. Shares repurchased are accounted for as treasury shares and the total cost of shares repurchased is recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. We may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash and cash equivalents As of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016 , we had $118.8 million and $87.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, including $77.7 million and $66.1 million were held by foreign subsidiaries, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consisted of cash on hand and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,297 $ 7,807 Net cash used in investing activities (16,994 ) (5,830 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 38,664 (35,094 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 33 (100 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 31,000 $ (33,217 ) Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $9.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 resulted primarily from net income of $2.4 million and non-cash expenses of $14.1 million , offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.2 million . The non-cash expenses of $14.1 million include a $6.5 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, a $1.3 million of share-based compensation expense, a $0.4 million of gain on disposal of property and equipment, and a $6.6 million of deferred income taxes. The net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.2 million were primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable from timing of billings and collection of payments, a $1.2 million increase in inventories, a $5.7 million increase in other current and long term assets due to increase in advance payments to vendors, and a $2.8 million decrease in accounts payable due to timing of payment, partially offset by a $0.3 million increase in income taxes payable and a $2.6 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities of $7.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 resulted primarily from net loss of $2.0 million, non-cash charges of $8.3 million, and net change in assets and liabilities providing net cash of $1.5 million. The non-cash charges of $8.3 million included a $6.9 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, a $0.8 million of share-based compensation expense, and a $0.6 million of deferred income taxes. The net change in assets and liabilities providing net cash of $1.5 million was primarily due to a $1.6 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and collection of payments, a $2.2 million decrease in inventories as we reduced our inventories, a $1.9 million increase in accrued and other liabilities, a $0.6 million decrease in other current and long term assets primarily due to decrease in advance payments to vendors, and a $0.4 million increase in income taxes payable, partially offset by a $5.2 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to timing of payment. Cash flows from investing activities 25 Net cash used in investing activities of $17.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily attributable to $17.4 million purchases of property and equipment and land to increase our in-house production capacity and to support the Joint Venture Company, partially offset by $0.4 million proceeds from sale of certain equipment. Net cash used in investing activities of $5.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to $6.0 million purchase of property and equipment to increase our in-house production capacity, partially offset by $0.2 million decrease in restricted cash during the period. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities of $38.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily attributable to $33.0 million proceeds from investment by noncontrolling interest and $6.0 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations and $0.1 million in common shares acquired to settle withholding tax related to vesting of restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities of $35.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to $35.2 million for repurchase of common shares, including repurchases in the Dutch tender offer, and $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations, partially offset by $0.4 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Capital expenditures Capital expenditures were $17.4 million and $6.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Our capital expenditures primarily consisted of purchases of equipment for our packaging and testing services and for our Oregon fab, and purchase of equipment and land in Chongqing for the Joint Venture Company, as well as for upgrading our operational and financial systems. The increase in capital expenditure was primarily due to the additional purchases of equipment and assets and land to construct the fab for the Joint Venture Company and to improve our technology and support our new product introductions to fuel business growth. Commitments As of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016 , we had approximately $38.6 million and $39.6 million , respectively, of outstanding purchase commitments primarily for purchases of semiconductor raw materials, wafers, spare parts and packaging and testing services. As of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016 , we had approximately $6.2 million and $6.6 million , respectively, of capital commitments for the purchase of property and equipment. Joint Venture Commitments In March 2016, we executed the JV Agreement with the Chongqing Funds to form a joint venture for the construction of a new state-of -the-art power semiconductor packaging, testing and wafer fabrication facility in Liangjiang New Area of Chongqing. The Joint Venture is expected to commence its initial packaging production in the first half of fiscal 2018. Under the JV Agreement, we are required to contribute $10.0 million in cash and certain intangible assets within one year from June 30, 2016. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2016 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii) arrangements. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements 26 See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 27