ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Item 2 constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Companys management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides certain safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made pursuant to the Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to its forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words AOS, the Company, we, us and our refer to Alpha and Omega Semiconductor Limited and its subsidiaries. This managements discussion should be read in conjunction with the managements discussion included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 27, 2015. Overview We are a designer, developer and global supplier of a broad portfolio of power semiconductors. Our portfolio of power semiconductors includes approximately 1,500 products, and has grown significantly with the introduction of over 100 new products during each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013. During the three months ended September 30, 2015 , we introduced an additional 24 new products. Our teams of scientists and engineers have developed extensive intellectual properties and technical knowledge that encompass major aspects of power semiconductors, which we believe enables us to introduce and develop innovative products to address the increasingly complex power requirements of advanced electronics. We have an extensive patent portfolio that consists of 539 patents and 172 patent applications in the United States as of September 30, 2015 . We differentiate ourselves by integrating our expertise in technology, design and advanced packaging to optimize product performance and cost. Our portfolio of products targets high-volume applications, including personal computers, flat panel TVs, LED lighting, smart phones, battery packs, consumer and industrial motor controls and power supplies for TVs, computers, servers and telecommunications equipment. Our business model leverages global resources, including research and development and manufacturing in the United States and Asia. Our sales and technical support teams are localized in several growing markets. We operate a 200mm wafer fabrication facility located in Hillsboro, Oregon, or the Oregon fab, which is critical for us to accelerate proprietary technology development and new product introduction as well as to improve our financial performance in the long run. To meet the market demand for more mature high volume products, we also utilize the wafer manufacturing capacity of selected third party foundries. For assembly and test, we primarily rely upon our in-house facilities in China. In addition, we utilize subcontracting partners for industry standard packages. We believe our in-house packaging and testing capability provides us with a competitive advantage in proprietary packaging technology, product quality, cost and sales cycle time. During the three months ended September 30, 2015 , we released AO4294, the latest addition to our family of high efficiency charging solutions. This new device is offered in an easy-to-use SO-8 package, which helps manufacturers keep the mounting cost low, while still getting the best efficiency and power dissipation possible. The AO4294 is an ideal solution for synchronours rectification in high efficiency chargers and adapters for mobile devices. We also released AOZ3053, a 5A EZBuck DC/DC regulator with smart mode adaption functions, available in a thermally enhanced exposed pad SO-8 package. The AOZ3053 is the first of this new smart platform, which allows for more thermally efficient DC/DC solutions for consumer, networking and industrial applications such as LCD TVs, set-top boxes, cable modems, and power supplies. In September 2015 we entered into a preliminary agreement with the state authority of Chongqing, China, to form a joint venture for a new state-of-the-art power semiconductor manufacturing facility in the Liangjiang New Area of Chongqing. Under the proposed agreement, the initial capitalization of the joint venture is expected to be approximately $300 million. The Chongqing authority would own 49% of the venture's equity and invest in cash. We would own 51% of the equity and contribute primarily our existing assembly and testing equipment as well as certain intellectual property related to the operation of the facility. We are currently negotiating a definitive joint venture agreement with Chongqing government to provide for the specific terms of the collaboration. The joint venture offers the prospect of creating new competitive advantages that can fuel growth of our business. We expect the joint venture to deliver significant cost savings for us and allow us to reduce our tangible assets as well as drive meaningful improvements in working capital and capital expenditures. 16 Factors affecting our performance Our performance is affected by several key factors, including the following: The global, regional economic and PC market conditions : Because our products primarily serve consumer electronic applications, a deterioration of the global and regional economic conditions could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. In particular, because a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the personal computing ("PC") markets, such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs, a significant decline or downturn in the PC markets can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue from the PC markets accounted for approximately 46.0% and 47.3% of our total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Since the beginning of calendar year 2013, we have experienced a significant global decline in the PC markets due to continued growth of demand in tablets and smart phones, worldwide economic conditions and the industry inventory correction which had and may continue to have a material negative impact on the demand for our products, revenue, factory utilization, gross margin, our ability to resell excess inventory, and other performance measures. In response to this trend, we have been executing and are continuing to execute our strategies to diversify our product portfolio and penetrate into other market segments, including the consumer, communications and industrial market segments, improve gross margin ad profit by implementing cost control measures. We are making progress in reducing our reliance on the computing market, and we are also committed to continue to support our computing business and capitalize on the opportunity with a more focused and competitive PC product strategy. However, as we develop and sell new products that serve more diversified markets, we expect that sales based on the PC markets, as a percentage of the total revenue, will continue to decline. If the rate of decline in the PC markets is faster than we expected, or if we cannot successfully diversify or introduce new products to keep pace with the declining PC markets, we may not be able to alleviate its negative impact, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Manufacturing costs : Our gross margin may be affected by our manufacturing costs, including utilization of our own manufacturing facilities, pricing of wafers from other foundries and semiconductor raw materials, which may fluctuate from time to time largely due to the market demand and supply. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have certain fixed costs associated with our in-house packaging and testing facilities and our Oregon fab. If we are unable to utilize the capacity of our in-house manufacturing facilities at a desired level, our gross margin may be adversely affected. For example, we may experience lower capacity utilization at our factories as a result of declining PC markets, which could adversely affect our gross margin and profitability. Erosion of average selling price: Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical in our industry. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that average selling prices of our existing products will continue to decline in the future. However, in the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices by introducing new and higher value products, expanding existing products for new applications and new customers, and reducing the manufacturing cost of existing products. Product introductions and customers' product requirements: Our success depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis that meet or are compatible with our customers' specifications and performance requirements. Both factors, timeliness of product introductions and conformance to customers' requirements, are equally important in securing design wins with our customers. As we accelerate the development of new technology platforms, we expect to increase the pace at which we introduce new products and obtain design wins. Our failure to introduce new products on a timely basis that meet customers' specifications and performance requirements, particularly those products with major OEM customers, and our inability to continue to expand our serviceable markets, could adversely affect our financial performance, including loss of market shares with customers. Distributor ordering patterns and seasonality : Our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand, and this demand may vary significantly depending on the sales outlooks and market and economic conditions of end customers. Because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly, which in turn may prompt distributors to make significant adjustments to their purchase orders placed with us. As a result, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, because our products are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. Our sales seasonality is affected by numerous factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the PC market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. In recent periods, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global and regional economic conditions, in particular the decline of the PC market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations than seasonality. 17 Principal line items of statements of operations The following describes the principal line items set forth in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of power semiconductors, consisting of power discretes and power ICs. Historically, a majority of our revenue was derived from power discrete products and a smaller amount was derived from power IC products. Because our products typically have three-year to five-year life cycles, the rate of new product introduction is an important driver of revenue growth over time. We believe that expanding the breadth of our product portfolio is important to our business prospects, because it provides us with an opportunity to increase our total bill-of-materials within an electronic system and to address the power requirements of additional electronic systems. In addition, a small percentage of our total revenue is generated by providing packaging and testing services to third-parties through one of our subsidiaries. Our product revenue includes the effect of the estimated stock rotation returns and price adjustments that we expect to provide to our distributors. Stock rotation returns are governed by contract and are limited to a specified percentage of the monetary value of products purchased by the distributor during a specified period. At our discretion or upon our direct negotiations with the original design manufacturers ("ODMs") or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), we may elect to grant special pricing that is below the prices at which we sold our products to the distributors. In these situations, we will grant price adjustments to the distributors reflecting such special pricing. We estimate the price adjustments for inventory at the distributors based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. Cost of goods sold Our cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs associated with semiconductor wafers, packaging and testing, personnel, including share-based compensation expense, overhead attributable to manufacturing, operations and procurement, and cost associated with yield improvements, capacity utilization, warranty and inventory reserves. As the volume of sales increases, we expect cost of goods sold to increase. We implemented a process to improve our factory capacity utilization rates by transferring more wafer production to our Oregon fab and reducing our reliance on outside foundries. While our utilization rates cannot be immune to market conditions, our goal is to make such rates less vulnerable to market fluctuations. We believe our market diversification strategy and product growth will drive higher volumes of manufacturing which will improve our factory utilization rates and gross margin in the long run. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate from period to period as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC markets as well as align our operating expenses to the revenue level. Research and development expenses. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, expenses associated with new product prototypes, travel expenses, fees for engineering services provided by outside contractors and consultants, amortization of software and design tools, depreciation of equipment and overhead costs for research and development personnel. We continue to invest in developing new technologies and products utilizing our own fabrication and packaging facilities as it is critical to our long-term success. We also evaluate appropriate investment levels and stay focused on new product introductions to improve our competitiveness. We expect that our research and development expenses will fluctuate from time to time. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, share-based compensation expense, product promotion costs, occupancy costs, travel expenses, expenses related to sales and marketing activities, amortization of software, depreciation of equipment, maintenance costs and other expenses for general and administrative functions as well as costs for outside professional services, including legal, audit and accounting services. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate in the near future as we continue to exercise cost control measures in response to the declining PC markets. Income tax expense We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our worldwide income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations of different jurisdictions globally. We establish accruals for potential liabilities and contingencies based on a more 18 likely than not threshold to the recognition and de-recognition of uncertain tax positions. If the recognition threshold is met, the applicable accounting guidance permits us to recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. If the actual tax outcome of such exposures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, the differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Changes in the location of taxable income (loss) could result in significant changes in our income tax expense. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on historical profitability and our estimate of future taxable income in a particular jurisdiction. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the deferred tax assets may increase or decrease, resulting in corresponding changes in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide profits or losses, the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region where we have operations, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Results of Operations The following tables set forth statements of operations, also expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results for any future period. Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Revenue $ 81,439 $ 88,217 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 66,378 70,057 81.5 % 79.4 % Gross profit 15,061 18,160 18.5 % 20.6 % Operating expenses Research and development 6,164 6,796 7.6 % 7.7 % Selling, general and administrative 9,659 9,604 11.9 % 10.9 % Total operating expenses 15,823 16,400 19.5 % 18.6 % Operating income (loss) (762 ) 1,760 (1.0 )% 2.0 % Interest income and other, net 11 48 % 0.1 % Interest expense (10 ) (73 ) % (0.1 )% Income (Loss) before income taxes (761 ) 1,735 (1.0 )% 2.0 % Income tax expense 1,214 1,171 1.5 % 1.3 % Net income (loss) $ (1,975 ) $ 564 (2.5 )% 0.7 % Share-based compensation expense was allocated as follow: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 (in thousands) (% of revenue) Cost of goods sold $ 131 $ 154 0.2 % 0.2 % Research and development 193 206 0.2 % 0.2 % Selling, general and administrative 465 742 0.6 % 0.8 % Total $ 789 $ 1,102 1.0 % 1.2 % 19 Revenue The following is a summary of revenue by product type: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Power discrete $ 59,912 $ 64,891 $ (4,979 ) (7.7 )% Power IC 17,514 19,156 (1,642 ) (8.6 )% Packaging and testing services 4,013 4,170 (157 ) (3.8 )% $ 81,439 $ 88,217 $ (6,778 ) (7.7 )% Total revenue was $81.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , an decrease of $6.8 million , or 7.7% , as compared to $88.2 million for the same period last year. The decrease primarily consisted of $5.0 million and $1.6 million in sales of power discrete products and power IC products, respectively. The decrease in power discrete and power IC products was primarily due to a 8.3% decrease in unit shipments, partially offset by a 0.6% increase in average selling price as compared to the same period of last year mainly due to a shift in product mix partially offset by selling price erosion in the computing and consumer markets. The revenue of packaging and testing services for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 remained flat. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 66,378 $ 70,057 $ (3,679 ) (5.3 )% Percentage of revenue 81.5 % 79.4 % Gross profit $ 15,061 $ 18,160 $ (3,099 ) (17.1 )% Percentage of revenue 18.5 % 20.6 % Cost of goods sold was $66.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $3.7 million , or 5.3% , as compared to $70.1 million for the same period last year, primarily due to decreased unit shipments. The decrease was partially offset by the overall manufacturing cost increase due to lower factory utilization as compared to the same period last year. Gross margin decreased by 2.1 percentage point to 18.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to 20.6% for the same period last year. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to lower factory utilization partially offset by increased average selling prices and positive impact of continued cost control during the current period. Research and development expenses Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Research and development $ 6,164 $ 6,796 $ (632 ) (9.3 )% Research and development expenses were $6.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $0.6 million , or 9.3% , as compared to $6.8 million for the same period last year. The decrease was primarily attributable to a $0.3 million decrease in employee compensation expenses and benefits as a result of less headcount, and a $0.1 million decrease in each of facilities expenses, product prototyping engineering expense and employee business expenses as a result of continued operational and cost control effort. Selling, general and administrative expenses 20 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 9,659 $ 9,604 $ 55 0.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses were $9.7 million and $9.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The slight increase was primarily due to a $0.2 million increase in audit and tax consulting fees due to increased related consulting activities, a $0.2 million increase in unrealized foreign exchange losses mainly due to recent appreciation of USD against RMB for current quarter over prior year same quarter, and a $0.1 million increase in employee compensation and benefits mainly due to increased headcount during the current quarter. The increase was partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in legal expenses due to less legal consulting activities, as well as a $0.3 million decrease in share-based compensation expenses primarily as a result of increased cancellation of stock options and restricted share unit awards related to the resignation of our Vice President of Power Discrete Product Line during the current period. Interest income and expenses Interest income was primarily related to interest earned from cash and cash equivalents. The decrease in interest income during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the same period last year was primarily due to the decrease in average cash balances. Interest expense was primarily related to bank borrowings. The decrease in interest expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the same period last year was primarily due the $20 million term loan obtained in May 2012 for our Oregon fab was fully repaid in May 2015. Income tax expense Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Change (in thousands) (in thousands) (in percentage) Income tax expense $ 1,214 $ 1,171 $ 43 3.7 % We recognized income tax expense of approximately $1.2 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was slightly higher than that for the same period last year primarily due to the changes in the mix of earnings in various geographic jurisdictions between the current and same period of last year. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal need for liquidity and capital resources is to maintain sufficient working capital to support our operations and to invest adequate capital expenditures to fuel the growth of our business. Currently, we primarily financed our operations and capital expenditures through funds generated from operations. On May 8, 2014, our Board of Directors approved to reactivate our existing $25.0 million share repurchase program which was originally authorized on October 22, 2010. The Board authorized management to repurchase, subject to oversight by the Board, our common shares up to remaining balance of the program, or $22.7 million. In April 2015, our Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase in the remaining available amount under the Companys share repurchase program from approximately $17.8 million to $50.0 million. The repurchases may be made from the open market pursuant to a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 trading plan (as amended, the "Repurchase Trading Plan") or through privately negotiated transactions. The amount and timing of any repurchases depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the trading price, volume and availability of our common shares, applicable legal requirements, our business and financial conditions and general market environment. There is no guarantee that any repurchases under the Program will be made or that such repurchases would enhance the value of our shares. In June 2015, we commenced a modified Dutch auction tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to repurchase an aggregate of $30.0 million of its outstanding common shares with a price range between $8.50 and $9.20 per share. In July 2015, we completed the Tender Offer in which we purchased 3,296,703 shares of its common shares, at a purchase price of $9.10 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $30.0 million, excluding fees and expenses relating to the Tender Offer. These shares represent approximately 12.53% of the total number of the Company's common shares issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2015. The Tender Offer was part of the $50.0 million share repurchase program approved by the Board in April 15, 2015. During the three months ended September 30, 2015, we repurchased, including the Tender Offer, a total of 3,930,106 shares from the open market, including 3,296,703 common shares in the Tender Offer, for a total cost of $35.0 million , at an average price of $8.90 per share, excluding fees and related expenses of $0.3 million, under the share repurchase program. Since the inception of the program in 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of 4,957,700 shares from the open market for a total cost of $44.0 million , at an average price of $8.87 per share, excluding fees and related expenses. As of September 30, 2015, approximately $13.2 million remained available under the share repurchase program. Shares repurchased are accounted for as treasury shares and the total cost of shares repurchased is recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months. We may require additional capital due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, we may seek to raise capital through equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash and cash equivalents As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015, we had $72.9 million and $106.1 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consisted of cash on hand and short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. The following table shows our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: 22 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,756 $ 7,629 Net cash used in investing activities (5,830 ) (2,467 ) Net cash used in financing activities (35,043 ) (5,093 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (100 ) (23 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (33,217 ) $ 46 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $7.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 resulted primarily from net loss of $2.0 million , non-cash charges of $8.3 million , and net change in assets and liabilities providing net cash of $1.5 million . The non-cash charges of $8.3 million included a $6.9 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, a $0.8 million of share-based compensation expense, and a $0.6 million of deferred income taxes. The net change in assets and liabilities providing net cash of $1.5 million was primarily due to a $1.6 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and collection of payments, a $2.2 million decrease in inventories as we reduced our inventories, a $1.9 million increase in accrued and other liabilities, a $0.6 million decrease in other current and long term assets primarily due to decrease in advance payments to vendors, and a $0.4 million increase in income taxes payable, partially offset by a $5.2 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to timing of payment. Net cash provided by operating activities of $7.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 resulted primarily from net income of $0.6 million, non-cash charges of $8.0 million, and net change in assets and liabilities using net cash of $0.9 million. The non-cash charges of $8.0 million included a $7.0 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, a $1.1 million of share-based compensation expense and a $0.1 million of net deferred income taxes, partially offset by a $0.3 million of forgiveness of the loan from the State of Oregon during the period. The net change in assets and liabilities using net cash of $0.9 million was primarily due to a $1.8 million increase in inventories as we increased our inventories to meet market demand, a $0.4 million increase in other current and long term assets primarily due to increase in advance payments to vendors, a $0.5 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to timing of payment, and a $0.1 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities primarily related to employee contributions to ESPP, partially offset by a $1.5 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and collection of payments, and a $0.5 million increase in income taxes payable. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities of $5.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to purchase of property and equipment of $6.0 million to increase our in-house production capacity, partially offset by $0.2 million decrease in restricted cash during the period. Net cash used in investing activities of $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily attributable to purchase of property and equipment of $2.3 million to increase our in-house production capacity, partially offset by $0.1 million increase in restricted cash during the period. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities of $35.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to $35.2 million for repurchase of common shares, including repurchases in the Dutch tender offer, and $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations, partially offset by $0.4 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities of $5.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily attributable to $5.7 million of repayment of our borrowings and $0.2 million in payment of capital lease obligations, partially offset by $0.9 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Capital expenditures Capital expenditures were $6.0 million and $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Our capital expenditures primarily consisted of purchases of equipment for our packaging and testing services and for our Oregon fab as well as for upgrading our operational and financial systems. The increase in capital expenditure was 23 primarily due to the additional purchases of equipment and assets to improve our technology and support our new product introductions to fuel business growth. Commitments As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015 , we had approximately $28.2 million and $29.2 million , respectively, of outstanding purchase commitments primarily for purchases of semiconductor raw materials, wafers, spare parts and packaging and testing services. As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015 , we had approximately $0.7 million and $3.7 million , respectively, of capital commitments for the purchase of property and equipment. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2015 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii) arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 24