Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales and Marketing We use a variety of methods to promote awareness of our products and services. We believe that we are recognized as a leader in the appliance recycling and replacement industry. We market our appliance recycling and replacement services to utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs by contacting prospective end user customers directly, delivering educational presentations at conferences for energy efficiency professionals, participating in utility industry trade shows, networking with key affiliates of electric power and environmental associations, and promoting on our corporate website at www.ARCAInc.com. We submit sales proposals for our services to interested parties and in response to requests for bid. 7 GeoTraq had no sales during 2018. Our ApplianceSmart concept included establishing large showrooms in metropolitan locations where we offered consumers a selection of hundreds of appliances at each of our stores. Seasonality Promotional activities for programs in which the utility sponsor conducts all advertising are generally strong during the second and third calendar quarters, leading to higher customer demand for services during that time period. As a result, we experience a surge in business during the second and third calendar quarters, which generally declines through the fourth and first calendar quarters until advertising activities resume. GeoTraq had no customers at December 29, 2018. Prior to our sale of ApplianceSmart, we experienced some seasonality in retail revenues, with revenues in the second and third calendar quarters being slightly higher than revenues in the first and fourth calendar quarters. Competition Many factors, including obtaining adequate resources to create and support the infrastructure required to operate large-scale appliance recycling and replacement programs, affect competition in the industry. We generally compete for contracts with several other appliance recycling businesses, energy services management companies, and new-appliance retailers. We also compete with small hauling or recycling companies based in the programs service territory. Many of these companies, including used-appliance dealers that call themselves appliance recyclers, resell in the secondary market a percentage of the used appliances they accept for recycling. The unsalable units may not be properly processed to remove environmentally harmful materials because these companies do not have the capability to offer the full range of services we provide. We expect our primary competition for appliance recycling and replacement contracts with existing and new customers to come from a variety of sources, including: 1. Existing recycling companies. 2. Entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business. 3. Management consultants. 4. Major waste hauling companies. 5. Scrap metal processors. 6. National and regional new appliance retailers. In addition, utility companies and other customers may choose to provide all or some of the services required to operate their appliance recycling and replacement programs internally rather than contracting with outside vendors. We have no assurance that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. GeoTraq plans on operating in an industry segment that is made of numerous competing technologies designed to connect devices to the Internet of Things. The businesss wireless solution uses Mobile Internet of Things (IoT) based on LTE CAT-M and the newly released NB-IoT protocols that were defined in the GSMAs (Groupe Speciale Mobile Association) 3GPP Release 13 standard. The Mobile IoT industry utilizes radio spectrum that is licensed to wireless carries by various governmental regulatory agencies around the world. Mobile IoT is extremely competitive and constantly changing as carriers, manufacturers and solution providers offer innovation to the IoT marketplace. GeoTraq believes there is a large under-served opportunity for Simple IoT solutions that significantly reduce the complexity, cycle time and cost of deploying Location Base Services (LBS) and sensor monitoring solutions. The companys transceiver modules and associated wireless connectivity subscription service is specifically targeted at accomplishing these objectives. 8 Prior to our sale of ApplianceSmart, our retail competition came primarily from new-appliance and other special-buy retailers. Each ApplianceSmart store competed with local and national retail appliance chains, as well as with independently owned retailers. Many of these retailers have been in business longer than ApplianceSmart and may have significantly greater assets. Government Regulation Federal, state, and local governments regulate appliance collection, recycling, and sales activities. While some requirements apply nationwide, others vary by market. The many laws and regulations that affect appliance recycling include landfill disposal restrictions, hazardous waste management requirements and air quality standards. For example, the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act prohibit the venting of all Refrigerants while servicing or disposing of appliances. Each of our recycling facilities maintains the appropriate registrations, permits and licenses for operating at its location. We register our recycling centers as hazardous waste generators with the EPA and obtain all appropriate regional and local licenses for managing hazardous wastes. Licensed hazardous waste companies transport and recycle or dispose of the hazardous materials we generate. Our collection vehicles and our transportation employees are required to comply with all U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) licensing requirements. In 2009, our then President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, was selected to represent the appliance recycling industry in the Climate Action Reserves 23-member workgroup that was tasked with developing the U.S. Ozone-Depleting Substances Project Protocol for the Destruction of Domestic High Global Warming Potential Ozone-Depleting Substances. The Climate Action Reserve is a national offsets registry working to ensure integrity, transparency and financial value in the U.S. carbon market. The protocol was issued on February 3, 2010, and provides guidance to account for, report and verify greenhouse gas emission reductions associated with destruction of high global warming potential ozone-depleting substances that would have otherwise been released to the atmosphere, including those used in both foam and refrigerant applications. In January 2013, through the authority of the California Air Resources Board, California launched a greenhouse gas (GHG) cap-and-trade program that will encompass 85% of the states emissions and affect all businesses operating in California by 2020; in 2017, the state legislature extended the program through 2030. The first compliance period enforcing the GHG emissions limits for capped business sectors began January 1, 2013. Entities may meet up to eight percent of their compliance obligations with freely sold or traded offset credits, such as those created through the voluntary destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants. We have been an active participant in Californias developing carbon offset market and anticipate increased involvement as the program expands. Our retail stores obtained business licenses, sales tax licenses and permits required for their locations. Our distribution and service vehicles comply with all DOT licensing requirements. Approximately thirty of ARCA Recyclings clients participate in the EPAs voluntary RAD program by committing to employing best environmental practices to reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances and greenhouse gases through the proper disposal of refrigeration appliances at end of life. We prepare annual RAD reports quantifying the materials collected to submit to EPA on behalf of our clients. Although we believe that further governmental regulation of the appliance recycling industry could have a positive effect on us, we cannot predict the direction of future legislation. Under some circumstances, for example, further regulation could materially increase our operational costs or reduce environmental requirements for disposing of appliances at end of life. In addition, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liabilities because we handle hazardous materials. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. GeoTraqs Mobile IoT modules utilize low power wireless transmitters the emit RF energy waves, which are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and may be subject to regulation by other domestic and international agencies. GeoTraq believes that FCC rules Part 15, Part 20, Part 22, Part 24 and Part 27 may apply to the companys products. GeoTraq believes that its products are safe and will utilize FCC accredited testing laboratories to verify and certify that the companys modules comply with all required regulatory requirements. In addition, GeoTraq intends to seek and obtain necessary licenses and permits from the FCC and other regulatory agencies as required by law. 9 Employees On December 29, 2018, we had 154 full-time employees and 5 part-time employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our common stock, you should also refer to the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Recycling Business and Our Business Generally Our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. Our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including steel, aluminum and copper, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. The majority of the recyclables we process for sale are steel and non-ferrous metals. The fluctuations in the market prices or demand for such commodity items, particularly demand from China and Turkey, can affect our future operating income and cash flows negatively, such as we experienced in 2015 and 2014. As we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. In the past we have also earned a significant amount of revenue from the sale of carbon credits under the California Cap-and-Trade Program. The creation of carbon offsets involves a consultant's establishment of a project that includes the successful destruction of the Company's ozone-depleting refrigerants. The project process involves a significant degree of regulatory compliance and only a limited number of facilities are approved to destroy ozone-depleting refrigerants. The uncertainty of regulatory project approval after carbon offsets have been produced results in unpredictable assurance of or timing for revenue recognition. If we are unable to find businesses that can effectively dispose of ozone-depleting refrigerants or if we do not receive project approval for the resulting carbon offsets, we could experience a material adverse effect to our operating results. We purchase our replacement appliances from third-party manufacturers, who we believe manufacture those appliances in China, and, as a result, international trade conditions could adversely affect us. We purchase our replacement appliances from third-party manufacturers, who we believe manufacture certain types of those appliances in China or purchase materials or parts from China for use in manufacturing. As a result, tariffs, political or financial instability, labor strikes, natural disasters or other events resulting in the disruption of trade or transportation from China or the imposition of additional regulations relating to foreign trade could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we were unable to adequately replace the merchandise we currently source with merchandise produced elsewhere, our business could be adversely affected. On March 22, 2018, President Trump, pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, directed the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports from China. On June 15, 2018, the USTR announced its intention to impose an incremental tariff of 25% on $50 billion worth of imports from China comprised of (1) 818 product lines valued at $34 billion (List 1) and (2) 284 additional product lines valued at $16 billion (List 2). The List 1 tariffs went into effect on July 6, 2018 and the List 2 tariffs went into effect on August 23, 2018, (with respect to 279 of the 284 originally targeted product lines). On July 10, 2018, the USTR announced its intention to impose an incremental tariff of 10% on another $200 billion worth of imports from China comprised of 6,031 additional product lines (List 3) following the completion of a public notice and comment period. The List 3 tariffs went into effect on September 24, 2018, with the incremental tariff increasing to 25% on March 2, 2019, which has since been delayed. Since the imposition of the tariffs as described above in addition to prior sanctions on imported steel and aluminum, these third-party manufacturers have increased the price of the appliances we purchase from them and retain the right to implement further increases. These increases, together with or without future increases, could have an adverse effect on our business. 10 We could incur charges due to impairment of long-lived assets. At December 29, 2018, we had long-lived asset balances of approximately $21 million, which are subject to periodic testing for impairment. A significant amount of judgment is involved in the periodic testing. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow within our GeoTraq business, or sales of our branded products or cash flow generated from operations at individual store locations could result in impairment charges for intangible or long-lived assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Impairment charges, if any, resulting from the periodic testing are non-cash. A significant decline in the property fair values could result in long-lived asset impairment charges. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price could result in intangible and long-lived asset impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is used to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. If we fail to implement our business strategy or if our business strategy is ineffective, our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon the effectiveness of our business strategy and our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. There are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: Our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. We may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. We may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. We may record material charges against earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. In addition to the risks set forth above, effectiveness of and the successful implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. We may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. If we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve and could decline substantially. If our third-party collection or delivery services are unable to meet our promised pickup and delivery schedules, our net sales may decline due to a decline in customer satisfaction. We offer appliance pickup and delivery services, which are significantly outsourced to third-party providers. Our third-party services are subject to risks that are beyond our control. If appliances are not picked up on time, or at all, or products are not delivered on time, our clients and customers may cancel their orders, or we may lose business from our clients and customers in the future. As a result, our net sales and profitability may decline. A cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. We use computers and transact, receive, transmit and store electronic data in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to communicate with our employees and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. 11 There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. Any such compromise of our security or the security of information residing with our business associates or third parties could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and may expose us to material costs, penalties, compensation claims, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. In addition, any compromise of our data security may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. Failure to effectively manage our costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Certain elements of our cost structure are largely fixed in nature. The negative impact of not renewing existing or securing new contracts on our business could make it more challenging for us to maintain or increase our operating income. The competitiveness in our industries and increasing price pressures and transparency means that the focus on achieving efficient operations is greater than ever. As a result, we must continuously focus on achieving new contracts and managing our cost structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, operating leases, other facility expenses or indirect spending could materially adversely affect our profitability. Any failure of our information technology infrastructure or management information systems could cause a disruption in our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to operate our business from day to day largely depends on the efficient operation of our information technology infrastructure and management information systems. We use our management information systems to conduct our operations and plan critical corporate and business functions, including recycling operations, sales management, supply chain and inventory management, financial reporting and accounting, delivery and other customer services and various administrative functions. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. Operating legacy systems subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading and replacing these systems and retaining sufficiently skilled personnel to maintain and operate the systems which may also place demands on management time, as well as create other risks and costs. Any failure that is not covered by our disaster recovery plan could cause an interruption in our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our sales may not be an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our current and historical sales figures have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our sales results and profitability, including: Changes in competition, such as pricing pressure. Periodic sale of carbon offsets resulting from the responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Inability to comply with or to identify third parties capable of complying with protocols required for responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Fluctuating commodity prices and available markets for our byproduct sales. Changes in recycling and replacement programs with utility customers. General economic conditions. Weather conditions in our markets. Timing of promotional events. Our ability to execute our business strategies effectively. 12 Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on general economic factors and other conditions that may affect our business, include periods of slow economic growth or recession, political factors including uncertainty in social or fiscal policy, an overly anti-business climate or sentiment, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing for us and our customers, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, and acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism. Additionally, any of these circumstances concentrated in a region of the U.S. in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: The housing and home improvement markets. Gasoline and fuel prices. Interest rates and inflation. Foreign currency exchange rates. Natural disasters. National and geopolitical concerns. Tax rates and tax policy. Other matters that influence business confidence and spending. Commodity prices. Volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. The above factors could result in slowdown in the economy or an uncertain economic outlook, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to hire, train and retain key management, qualified managers, other employees and subcontracted agents, we could have difficulty implementing our business strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed in the future, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. Other factors that impact our ability to maintain sufficient levels of qualified employees and agents in all areas of the business include, but are not limited to, the Companys reputation, worker morale, the current macroeconomic environment, competition from other employers, and our ability to offer adequate compensation packages. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to our employees. Our ability to control labor costs, which may impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits or labor relations and health and other insurance costs. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are: The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, state and national jurisdictions; The impact of proposed, new or changing statues and regulations, including, but not limited to, corporate governance matters, environmental impact, financial reform, Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act, health care reform, labor reform, and/or other as yet unknown legislation that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure. 13 The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards. The impact of litigation, including class action or individual lawsuits involving shareholders, and labor and employment litigation related matters. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, economic or political instability, natural disasters, public health emergencies and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenues, or may force us to increase prices, thereby adversely impacting net sales and profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking action which, in either case, could adversely affect our operations or reduce our net income. There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. Any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages. Additionally, defending against regulatory changes, lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of managements attention and resources from other matters which could adversely affect our results of operations. Significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Our collection and delivery agents need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and delivery of appliance activities. Supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. Additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses will increase and many of our vendors may raise their prices as a means to offset their rising costs. We may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs to our customers and some contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs. We lease our corporate headquarters and recycling centers. Our continued growth and success depend in part on our ability to locate desirable property for new recycling centers and renew leases for existing locations. Because there is no assurance that we will be able to locate acceptable real estate for new recycling centers; or re-negotiate leases for existing locations at similar or favorable terms at the end of the lease term, we could be forced to move or exit a market if another favorable arrangement cannot be made. Furthermore, a significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in lease expense as we open new locations and renew leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring leases could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business. If an existing recycling center is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for recycling centers that we close could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. We have identified and disclosed in this Form 10-K material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to remediate these material weaknesses and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results, which could cause our stock price to fall or result in our stock being delisted. We need to devote significant resources and time to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) with respect to internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Section 404 under Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we assess the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting, which are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports. 14 As reported in Part II Item 9A,