Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales and Marketing We use a variety of methods to promote awareness of our products and services. We believe that we are recognized as a leader in the appliance recycling and replacement industry and, prior to our sale of ApplianceSmart, in special-buy appliance retailing. We market our appliance recycling and replacement services to utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs by contacting prospective end user customers directly, delivering educational presentations at conferences for energy efficiency professionals, participating in utility industry trade shows, networking with key affiliates of electric power and environmental associations, and promoting on our corporate website at www.ARCAInc.com. We submit sales proposals for our services to interested parties and in response to requests for bid. GeoTraq is a development stage company in the business of acquiring new technologies for development and marketing and had no sales during 2017. Our ApplianceSmart concept included establishing large showrooms in metropolitan locations where we offer consumers a selection of hundreds of appliances at each of our stores. Our visual branding consists of ample display of product, manufacturers signage and custom-designed ApplianceSmart materials. We advertise our stores through television, radio, print media, social media and direct mail. Through www.ApplianceSmart.com, consumers can also search our inventory and purchase appliances online. Seasonality Promotional activities for programs in which the utility sponsor conducts all advertising are generally strong during the second and third calendar quarters, leading to higher customer demand for services during that time period. As a result, we experience a surge in business during the second and third calendar quarters, which generally declines through the fourth and first calendar quarters until advertising activities resume. GeoTraq currently has no customers and therefore does not currently experience seasonality. Prior to our sale of ApplianceSmart, we experienced some seasonality in retail revenues, with revenues in the second and third calendar quarters being slightly higher than revenues in the first and fourth calendar quarters. Competition Many factors, including obtaining adequate resources to create and support the infrastructure required to operate large-scale appliance recycling and replacement programs, affect competition in the industry. We generally compete for contracts with several other appliance recycling businesses, energy services management companies and new-appliance retailers. We also compete with small hauling or recycling companies based in the programs service territory. Many of these companies, including used-appliance dealers that call themselves appliance recyclers, resell in the secondary market a percentage of the used appliances they accept for recycling. The unsalable units may not be properly processed to remove environmentally harmful materials because these companies do not have the capability to offer the full range of services we provide. 7 We expect our primary competition for appliance recycling and replacement contracts with existing and new customers to come from a variety of sources, including: 1. Existing recycling companies. 2. Entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business. 3. Management consultants. 4. Major waste hauling companies. 5. Scrap metal processors. 6. National and regional new appliance retailers. In addition, utility companies and other customers may choose to provide all or some of the services required to operate their appliance recycling and replacement programs internally rather than contracting with outside vendors. We have no assurance that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. The industry in which GeoTraq plans on operating is extremely competitive and constantly changing. Within the location-based services industry, there are a significant number of companies that are competing for customers, recurring fees, administrative fees and many other unique opportunities for revenue. GeoTraqs principal competitors are GPS and RFID companies. Prior to our sale of ApplianceSmart, our retail competition comes mainly from new-appliance and other special-buy retailers. Each ApplianceSmart store competes with local and national retail appliance chains, as well as with independently owned retailers. Many of these retailers have been in business longer than us and may have significantly greater assets. Government Regulation Federal, state and local governments regulate appliance collection, recycling and sales activities. While some requirements apply nationwide, others vary by market. The many laws and regulations that affect appliance recycling include landfill disposal restrictions, hazardous waste management requirements and air quality standards. For example, the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act prohibit the venting of all Refrigerants while servicing or disposing of appliances. Each of our recycling facilities maintains the appropriate registrations, permits and licenses for operating at its location. We register our recycling centers as hazardous waste generators with the EPA and obtain all appropriate regional and local licenses for managing hazardous wastes. Licensed hazardous waste companies transport and recycle or dispose of the hazardous materials we generate. Our collection vehicles and our transportation employees are required to comply with all U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) licensing requirements. We have been recognized for our work in protecting the environment from the harmful effects of improper appliance disposal. In 2004, the EPA awarded us, along with our former customer Southern California Edison Company (SCE), the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award for the environmentally responsible manner in which we collect and dispose of appliances. In 2007, we were again recognized by the EPA with a Best of the Best Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award as part of an appliance recycling team responsible for the most exceptional global contributions in the first two decades of the Montreal Protocol. We were recognized by SCE as the sole recipient of the 2010 Environmental Excellence Award for our exemplary support and service of SCEs Appliance Recycling Program and commitment to providing the highest levels of performance and service to SCE and program participants while maintaining the strong values and ethics that exemplify a value-added supplier. ARCA has provided services for SCE since 1994. In 2009, our then President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, was selected to represent the appliance recycling industry in the Climate Action Reserves 23-member workgroup that was tasked with developing the U.S. Ozone-Depleting Substances Project Protocol for the Destruction of Domestic High Global Warming Potential Ozone-Depleting Substances. The Climate Action Reserve is a national offsets program working to ensure integrity, transparency and financial value in the U.S. carbon market. The protocol was issued on February 3, 2010, and provides guidance to account for, report and verify greenhouse gas emission reductions associated with destruction of high global warming potential ozone-depleting substances that would have otherwise been released to the atmosphere, including those used in both foam and refrigerant applications. In January 2013, through the authority of the California Air Resources Board, California launched a greenhouse gas (GHG) cap-and-trade program that will encompass 85% of the states emissions and affect all businesses operating in California by 2020; in 2017, the state legislature extended the program through 2030. The first compliance period enforcing the GHG emissions limits for capped business sectors began January 1, 2013. Entities may meet up to eight percent of their compliance obligations with freely sold or traded offset credits, such as those created through the voluntary destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants. We have been an active participant in Californias developing carbon offset market and anticipate increased involvement as the program expands. Our retail stores obtain business licenses, sales tax licenses and permits required for their locations. Our distribution and service vehicles comply with all DOT licensing requirements. In addition, in 2010, ApplianceSmart became the first independent retailer in the country to partner with the EPA in the Responsible Appliance Disposal (RAD) Program. Through RAD, partners commit to employing best environmental practices to reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances and greenhouse gases through the proper disposal of refrigeration appliances at end of life. RAD partners report program results to the EPA annually to help quantify climate protection efforts. 8 Although we believe that further governmental regulation of the appliance recycling industry could have a positive effect on us, we cannot predict the direction of future legislation. Under some circumstances, for example, further regulation could materially increase our operational costs or reduce environmental requirements for disposing of appliances at end of life. In addition, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liabilities because we handle hazardous materials. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. GeoTraq is required to comply with all Federal Communication Commission rules and regulations with respect to its modules. Employees On June 11, 2018, we had 160 full-time employees and 5 part-time employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our common stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Recycling Business and Our Business Generally Our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. Our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including steel, aluminum and copper, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. The majority of the recyclables we process for sale are steel and non-ferrous metals. The fluctuations in the market prices or demand for such commodity items, particularly demand from China and Turkey, can affect our future operating income and cash flows negatively, such as we experienced in 2015 and 2014. As we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. In the past we have also earned a significant amount of revenue from the sale of carbon credits under the California Cap-and-Trade Program. The creation of carbon offsets involves a consultant's establishment of a project that includes the successful destruction of the Company's ozone-depleting refrigerants. The project process involves a significant degree of regulatory compliance and only a limited number of facilities are approved to destroy ozone-depleting refrigerants. The uncertainty of regulatory project approval after carbon offsets have been produced results in unpredictable assurance of or timing for revenue recognition. If we are unable to find businesses that can effectively dispose of ozone-depleting refrigerants or if we do not receive project approval for the resulting carbon offsets, we could experience a material adverse effect to our operating results. We could incur charges due to impairment of long-lived assets. At December 30, 2017, we had long-lived asset balances of $26 million, which are subject to periodic testing for impairment. A significant amount of judgment is involved in the periodic testing. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow within our Geotraq business, or sales of our branded products or cash flow generated from operations at individual store locations could result in impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets or fixed asset impairment for long-lived assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Impairment charges, if any, resulting from the periodic testing are non-cash. A significant decline in the property fair values could result in long-lived asset impairment charges. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price could result in goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is used to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. If we fail to implement our business strategy or if our business strategy is ineffective, our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon the effectiveness of our business strategy and our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. There are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: Our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. We may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. We may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. We may record material charges against earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. In addition to the risks set forth above, effectiveness of and the successful implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. We may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. If we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve and could decline substantially. If our third-party collection or delivery services are unable to meet our promised pickup and delivery schedules, our net sales may decline due to a decline in customer satisfaction. We offer appliance pickup and delivery services, which are significantly outsourced to third-party providers. Our third-party services are subject to risks that are beyond our control. If appliances are not picked up on time, or at all, or products are not delivered on time, our clients and customers may cancel their orders, or we may lose business from our clients and customers in the future. As a result, our net sales and profitability may decline. A cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. We use computers and transact, receive, transmit and store electronic data in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to communicate with our employees and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. We also rely on a Payment Card Industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. Any such compromise of our security or the security of information residing with our business associates or third parties could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and may expose us to material costs, penalties, compensation claims, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. In addition, any compromise of our data security may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. 10 Failure to effectively manage our costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Certain elements of our cost structure are largely fixed in nature. The negative impact that sales and/or margin declines have on our business could make it more challenging for us to maintain or increase our operating income. The competitiveness in our industry and increasing price transparency means that the focus on achieving efficient operations is greater than ever. As a result, we must continuously focus on retaining and growing sales, maintaining and improving margins and managing our cost structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating leases, other facility expenses or indirect spending could materially adversely affect our profitability. Any failure of our information technology infrastructure or management information systems could cause a disruption in our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to operate our business from day to day largely depends on the efficient operation of our information technology infrastructure and management information systems. We use our management information systems to conduct our operations and plan critical corporate and business functions, including store operations, recycling operations, sales management, supply chain and inventory management, financial reporting and accounting, delivery and other customer services and various administrative functions. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. Operating legacy systems subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading and replacing these systems and retaining sufficiently skilled personnel to maintain and operate the systems which may also place demands on management time, as well as create other risks and costs. Any failure that is not covered by our disaster recovery plan could cause an interruption in our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our sales may not be an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our current and historical sales figures have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our sales results and profitability, including: Changes in competition, such as pricing pressure, and the opening of new stores by competitors in our markets. Periodic sale of carbon offsets resulting from the responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Inability to comply with or to identify third parties capable of complying with protocols required for responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Fluctuating commodity prices and available markets for our byproduct sales. Changes in recycling and replacement programs with utility customers. General economic conditions. Consumer trends. Weather conditions in our markets. Timing of promotional events. The locations of our stores and traffic drawn to those areas. Our ability to execute our business strategies effectively. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on general economic factors and other conditions that may affect our business, include periods of slow economic growth or recession, political factors including uncertainty in social or fiscal policy, an overly anti-business climate or sentiment, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing for us and our customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, and acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism. Additionally, any of these circumstances concentrated in a region of the U.S. in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: 11 Consumer confidence in the economy. Unemployment trends. Consumer debt levels. Consumer credit availability. The housing and home improvement markets. Gasoline and fuel prices. Interest rates and inflation. Foreign currency exchange rates. Slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income. Natural disasters. National and geopolitical concerns. Tax rates and tax policy. Other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Commodity prices. Volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. The above factors could result in slowdown in the economy or an uncertain economic outlook, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to hire, train and retain key management, qualified managers, other employees and subcontracted agents, we could have difficulty implementing our business strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed in the future, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. Other factors that impact our ability to maintain sufficient levels of qualified employees and agents in all areas of the business include, but are not limited to, the Companys reputation, worker morale, the current macroeconomic environment, competition from other employers, and our ability to offer adequate compensation packages. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to our employees. Our ability to control labor costs, which may impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits or labor relations and health and other insurance costs. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are: The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, state and national jurisdictions; The impact of proposed, new or changing statues and regulations, including, but not limited to, corporate governance matters, environmental impact, financial reform, Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act, health care reform, labor reform, and/or other as yet unknown legislation that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure. 12 The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards. The impact of litigation, including class action or individual lawsuits involving shareholders, and labor and employment litigation related matters. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, economic or political instability, natural disasters, public health emergencies and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenues, or may force us to increase prices, thereby adversely impacting net sales and profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking action which, in either case, could adversely affect our operations or reduce our net income. There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. Any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages. Additionally, defending against regulatory changes, lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of managements attention and resources from other matters which could adversely affect our results of operations. Significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Our collection and delivery agents need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and delivery of appliance activities in both our retail and recycling segments. Supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. Additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses will increase and many of our vendors may raise their prices as a means to offset their rising costs. We may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs to our customers and some contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs. We lease most of our corporate headquarters and recycling centers. Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to locate desirable property for new recycling centers and renew leases for existing locations. Because there is no assurance that we will be able to locate acceptable real estate for new recycling centers; or re-negotiate leases for existing locations at similar or favorable terms at the end of the lease term, we could be forced to move or exit a market if another favorable arrangement cannot be made. Furthermore, a significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in lease expense as we open new locations and renew leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring leases could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business. If an existing recycling center is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores or recycling centers that we close could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls could result in inaccurate reporting of financial results and harm our business. We are required to comply with a variety of reporting, accounting and other rules and regulations. As such, we maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. A control system can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. Furthermore, compliance with existing requirements is expensive and we may need to implement additional finance and accounting and other systems, procedures and controls to satisfy our reporting requirements. If our internal control over financial reporting continues to be evaluated as ineffective, such failure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, negatively affect the market price of our common stock, subject us to regulatory investigations and penalties, and adversely impact our business and financial condition. 13 Our revenues from recycling and appliance replacement contracts are very difficult to project and the loss or modification of major recycling and appliance replacement contracts could adversely impact our profits. Our business is dependent largely upon our ability to obtain new contracts and continue existing contracts for appliance recycling services and appliance replacement programs with utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs. Contracts with these entities generally have initial terms of one to three years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. However, some contracts are for programs that are non-recurring. Although we continue to respond to utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs requesting bids for upcoming recycling services, we are still dependent on certain customers for a large portion of our revenues. The loss or material reduction of business from any of these major customers could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. While we wish to add new recycling and appliance replacement contracts in 2018 and beyond, we cannot assure you that our existing contracts will continue, that they will be sufficiently profitable, that existing customers will continue to use our services at current levels or we will be successful in obtaining new recycling and replacement contracts going forward. Our revenues from recycling contracts are subject to seasonal fluctuations and are dependent on the utilities advertising and promotional activities for contracts in which we do not provide advertising services. In our business with utility companies, we experience seasonal fluctuations that impact our operating results. Our recycling revenues are generally higher during the second and third calendar quarters and lower in the first and fourth calendar quarters, due largely to the promotional activity schedules of which we have no control in advertising programs managed by the utilities. Our staff communicates client-driven advertising activities internally in an effort to achieve an operational balance. We expect that we will continue to experience such seasonal fluctuations in recycling revenues. We may need new capital to fully execute our growth strategy. Our business involves providing comprehensive, integrated appliance recycling and replacement services and operating a chain of retail stores. This commitment will require a significant continuing investment in capital equipment and leasehold improvements and could require additional investment in real estate. Our total capital requirements will depend on, among the other things discussed in this annual report, the number of recycling centers and the number and size of retail stores operating during 2018 and thereafter. Currently, we have thirteen recycling centers in operation. If our revenues are lower than anticipated, our expenses are higher than anticipated or our line of credit cannot be maintained, we will require additional capital to finance our operations. Even if we are able to maintain our line of credit, we may need additional equity or other capital in the future. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity (including the issuance of preferred stock) or other securities. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available to us, available on acceptable terms or permitted by the terms of our current debt agreements. In addition, if we sell additional equity to raise funds, all outstanding shares of common stock will be diluted. Changes in governmental regulations relating to our recycling business could increase our costs of operations and adversely affect our business. Our appliance recycling centers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements related to providing turnkey services for energy efficiency programs. These requirements vary by market location and include, for example, laws concerning the management of hazardous materials and the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, which require us to recapture CFC refrigerants from appliances to prevent their release into the atmosphere. Our ability to generate revenue from the sale of carbon offsets created through the voluntary destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants could also be adversely affected by governmental regulations as the market develops. Should the federal government mandate the destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants in the future, we would be required to destroy these substances without the benefit of generating carbon offsets, which would increase the cost of our operations. We have registered our centers with the EPA as hazardous waste generators and have obtained required licenses from appropriate state and local authorities. We have agreements with approved and licensed hazardous waste companies for transportation and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials generated through our recycling processes. As is the case with all companies handling hazardous materials, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liability. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. In addition, changes and proposed changes by the Trump Administration and the head of the EPA indicate that the regulation of the emission of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, and other ozone-depleting substances may be less of a priority. In addition, the Trump Administration and head of the EPA have announced that they intend to rescind or have already rescinded various environmental regulations established and enforced by previous administrations. As a result, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are difficult to predict. Even if federal environmental efforts slow, states may continue pursuing new regulations. These changes by the Trump Administration and the EPA, together with other purposed changes, could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Risks Relating to Our Technology Business GeoTraq has incurred significant operating losses since inception and expects the losses will continue into the future. If the losses continue GeoTraq may have to suspend operations or cease operations. GeoTraq has no operating history upon which an evaluation of its future success or failure can be made. GeoTraq has incurred significant operating losses since inception and has limited financial resources to support it until such time that it is able to generate positive cash flow from operations. GeoTraqs ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon its ability to (i) develop its technology and (ii) generate revenues from its planned business operations. Based upon current plans, GeoTraq expects to continue to incur operating losses in future periods. Failure to generate revenues may cause GeoTraq to suspend or cease operations GeoTraq is in the early stages of development . GeoTraq is developing a new technology and may encounter difficulties including unanticipated problems relating to the development and testing of its product, initial and continuing regulatory compliance, vendor manufacturing costs, production and assembly of its product, and the competitive and regulatory environments in which the company intends to operate. It is uncertain, at this stage of its development, if GeoTraq is unable to effectively resolve any such problems, should they occur. If GeoTraq cannot resolve an unanticipated problem, it may be forced to modify or abandon its business plan. GeoTraq does not have sufficient funds to complete each phase of its proposed plan of operation and as a result may have to suspend operations. Each of the phases of GeoTraqs plan of operation is limited and restricted by the amount of working capital that GeoTraq has and is able to raise from financings and generate from business operations. GeoTraq currently does not have sufficient funds to complete each phase of its proposed plan of operation and management expects that GeoTraq will not satisfy its cash requirements for the next 12 months. As a result, GeoTraq may have to suspend or cease its operations on one or more phases of its proposed plan of operation. Until such time as GeoTraq is able to generate any consistent and significant revenue, it will be required to raise the required funds by way of equity or debt financing. GeoTraq intends to finance its plan of operation with private loans and equity financing initially and then with revenues generated from its business operations. If GeoTraq cannot raise the funds necessary to proceed it may have to suspend operations until it has sufficient capital. GeoTraq plans to outsource the research and development of its technology, and as a result it will be dependent upon those third-party developers to develop our products in a timely and cost-efficient manner while maintaining a minimum level of quality. GeoTraq does not have internal manufacturing capabilities and relies on contract manufacturers to manufacture its products. GeoTraq cannot be certain that it will not experience operational difficulties with its future manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs and increased lead times. Additionally, GeoTraqs future manufacturers may experience disruptions in their manufacturing operations due to equipment breakdowns, labor strikes or shortages, component or material shortages, cost increases or other similar problems. Further, in order to minimize their inventory risk, GeoTraqs future manufacturers might not order components from third-party suppliers with adequate lead time, thereby impacting its ability to meet demand forecasts. Therefore, if GeoTraq fails to manage its relationship with its manufacturers effectively, or if they experience operational difficulties, GeoTraqs ability to ship products could be impaired and its competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In the event that GeoTraq receives shipments of products that fail to comply with its technical specifications or that fail to conform to its quality control standards, and it is not able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, GeoTraq risks revenue losses from the inability to sell those products, increased administrative and shipping costs, and lower profitability. Additionally, if defects are not discovered until after customers purchase its products, GeoTraq customers could lose confidence in the technical attributes of its products and its business could be harmed. 15 GeoTraq will not control its future contract manufacturers or suppliers, including their labor, environmental or other practices, or require them to comply with a formal code of conduct. However, GeoTraq intends to conduct periodic audits of its contract manufacturers and suppliers compliance with applicable laws and good industry practices, these audits may not be frequent or thorough enough to detect non-compliance. A violation of labor, environmental or other laws by its contract manufacturers or suppliers, or a failure of these parties to follow ethical business practices, could lead to negative publicity and harm GeoTraqs reputation. In addition, GeoTraq may choose to seek alternative manufacturers or suppliers if these violations or failures were to occur. Identifying and qualifying new manufacturers or suppliers can be time consuming and GeoTraq may not be able to substitute suitable alternatives in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost. Other consumer products companies have faced significant criticism for the actions of their manufacturers and suppliers, and GeoTraq could face such criticism as well. Any of these events could adversely affect its brand, harm its reputation, reduce demand for its products and harm its ability to meet demand if it needs to identify alternative manufacturers or suppliers. GeoTraqs success depends on sales and adoption of its technology for asset tracking and theft recovery. GeoTraqs revenue will be derived from module sales and recurring fees that GeoTraq receives from resellers that support end users who purchase and activate a Cell-ID product using the companys technology. Depending on the products created by companies that use our Cell-ID module, GeoTraq will receive recurring revenue based on the number of activations and ongoing monthly service. GeoTraqs short term success depends heavily on achieving significantly increased customer adoption of its Technology either through stand alone or integrated products. GeoTraqs success also depends on achieving widespread deployment of the Technology by attracting and retaining additional manufacturing partners. The use of the Technology will depend on the pricing, quality and features of the Cell-ID module to be integrated into location-based products which may vary by market, as well as the level of subscriber turnover experienced by cellular subscriptions. If subscriber turnover increases more than management anticipates, GeoTraqs financial results could be adversely affected. Cellular service providers on which GeoTraqs technology is dependent may change the terms by which the technology is used on their networks, which could result in lower revenue and adverse effects on our business. If the cellular service providers on which GeoTraqs technology is to be used changes the terms of use or eliminates the ability to use products that incorporate GeoTraqs technology, GeoTraq could lose customers as they would no longer be able to use GeoTraqs technology in their products. In addition, GeoTraq could be required to change its fee structure to retain customers, which could negatively affect GeoTraqs gross margins. The cellular service providers may also decide to raise prices, impose usage caps or fees, or discontinue certain application bundles, which could adversely affect end users who use GeoTraqs technology. If imposed, these pricing changes or usage restrictions could make GeoTraqs technology less attractive and could result in current end users abandoning GeoTraqs technology. If end user turnover increased, the number of GeoTraqs end users and GeoTraqs revenue would decrease and its business would be harmed. GeoTraqs ability to increase or maintain its customer base and revenue will be impaired if cellular service providers do not allow GeoTraq Technology access to their networks. GeoTraqs technology requires cellular service to operate. The products produced by manufactures will require end users to maintain service with cellular service providers. If cellular service providers do not permit end users to purchase the cellular connectivity the product requires, GeoTraq may have difficulty attracting manufacturing customers because of the lack of, or difficulty in purchasing and provisioning a service plan. If the end user is unable to provide seamless provisioning or the carrier cancels their subscriptions, GeoTraqs business may be harmed. GeoTraq may not be able to enhance its technology to keep pace with technological and market developments or develop new technology in a timely manner or at competitive prices. The market for location-based products and services is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and achieve product acceptance, GeoTraqs future success depends upon its ability to enhance its current technology and to continue to develop and introduce new technology and enhanced performance features and functionality on a timely basis at competitive prices. GeoTraqs inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce or deliver compelling technology in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technologies or consumer expectations could have a material adverse effect on GeoTraqs operating results or could result in its Technology becoming obsolete. GeoTraqs ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on its ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering team and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of its technology with evolving industry standards and protocols and competitive network operating environments. Development and delivery schedules for newly developed technology are difficult to predict. GeoTraq in the past, and may in the future, fail to deliver new versions of its technology in a timely fashion. If new releases of GeoTraqs Technology are delayed or not integrated into products upon their initial commercial release, the manufactures may curtail their efforts to market and promote GeoTraqs technology and may switch to competing products or services, any of which would result in a delay or loss of revenue and could harm GeoTraqs business. In addition, GeoTraq cannot provide any assurance that the technology it develops will be brought to market as quickly as anticipated or that the technology will achieve broad acceptance among wireless carriers or consumers. 16 If GeoTraq is unable to develop or modify its technology for new customer products, GeoTraqs revenue growth may be adversely affected and its net income could decline. If GeoTraq does not develop or modify its technology for new products envisioned or introduced by our customers to increase the number of customer end users who use GeoTraqs technology, GeoTraq may not be able to increase its revenue in the longer term. GeoTraqs sales and marketing efforts may not be successful in establishing relationships with new customers. If GeoTraq fails to develop or modify its technology to attract new customers and new subscribers or its new Technology is not successful, GeoTraq may be unable to increase its revenue and its operating results may be adversely affected. GeoTraqs business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that its technology or another aspect of its business infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The markets in which GeoTraq competes are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and trade secrets and also by litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement to extract settlements from companies like GeoTraq. Also, third parties may make infringement claims against GeoTraq that relate to technology developed and owned by one of its suppliers for which its suppliers may or may not indemnify GeoTraq. Even if GeoTraq is indemnified against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations and determining the scope of these obligations could require additional litigation. Claims of intellectual property infringement against GeoTraq or its suppliers might require GeoTraq to redesign its products, rebrand its services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting GeoTraq from marketing or selling its products or services. If GeoTraq cannot or does not license the infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar intellectual property from another source, its revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted. Additionally, GeoTraqs customers, distributors and retailers may not purchase its offerings if they are concerned that they may infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert managements attention and resources, damage GeoTraqs reputation and brand and cause it to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any of these events may have an adverse effect on GeoTraqs business, financial condition and operating results. GeoTraq faces significant competition and failure to successfully compete in the industry with established companies may result in GeoTraqs inability to continue with its business operations. There are other companies that provide similar products and services. Management expects competition in this market to increase significantly as new companies enter the market and current competitors expand their products and services. GeoTraqs competitors may develop or offer technology or products that are better than GeoTraqs or that achieve greater market acceptance. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. Competitive pressures created by any one of these companies, or by GeoTraqs competitors collectively, could have a negative impact on GeoTraqs business, results of operations and financial condition and as a result, GeoTraq may not be able to continue with its business operations. In addition, if GeoTraq is unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced products and services quickly enough to respond to market or user requirements or to comply with emerging industry standards, or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, GeoTraq may not be able to compete effectively. Many of GeoTraqs competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than GeoTraq. Some of GeoTraqs competitors and its potential competitors advantages over GeoTraq, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: (a) offering their services at no or low cost to customers; (b) significantly greater revenue and financial resources; (c) stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; (d) the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of location based technologies and products; (e) access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; (f) access to custom or proprietary content; (g) quicker pace of innovation; (h) stronger wireless carrier relationships; (i) greater resources to make and integrate acquisitions; (j) lower labor and development costs; and (k) broader global distribution and presence. 17 Changes in government regulation of the wireless communications industry may adversely affect GeoTraqs business. Currently, other than business and operations licenses applicable to most commercial ventures, GeoTraq is not required to obtain any governmental approval for its business operations. However, there can be no assurance that current or new laws or regulations will not, in the future, impose additional fees and taxes on GeoTraq and its business operations. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the wireless communications industry, including laws and regulations regarding lawful interception of personal data, privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright and antitrust. Management anticipates that regulation of the industry will increase and that GeoTraq will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the wireless communications industries may lessen the growth of wireless communications services and may adversely impact the financial results of GeoTraqs business operations. GeoTraq may be subject to legal proceedings involving its technology that could result in substantial costs and which could materially harm GeoTraqs business operations. From time to time, GeoTraq may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of its business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by GeoTraq. These types of claims could result in increased costs of doing business through legal expenses, adverse judgments or settlements or require GeoTraq to change its business practices in expensive ways. Additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce GeoTraqs technology rights, to protect its trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm GeoTraqs business. GeoTraq may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of its technology and implementation of its proposed plan of operations. GeoTraqs future success depends largely upon the continued service of its board members, executive officers and other key personnel. GeoTraqs success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Key personnel represent a significant asset, and the competition for these personnel is intense in the communications industry. GeoTraq may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in initial phases of its proposed plan of operations. GeoTraq does not maintain key person life insurance on any of its personnel. The loss of one or more of its key employees or its inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact GeoTraqs ability to complete any proposed phase of its plan of operations. GeoTraqs management lacks any formal training or experience in offshore manufacturing and supply chain management, and as a result management may make mistakes, which could have a negative impact on GeoTraqs business operations. GeoTraqs management is inexperienced in researching and developing technology. Management has no direct training or experience in these areas and, as a result, may not be fully aware of all of the specific requirements related to working within this industry. Managements decisions and choices may not take into account standard managerial approaches technology companies commonly use. Consequently, GeoTraqs operations, earnings, and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm due to managements lack of experience in this industry. As a result, GeoTraq may have to suspend or cease operations and GeoTraqs business operations may be negatively impacted. GeoTraqs business and products are subject to a variety of additional U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that are central to our business and its failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business or our operating results. GeoTraq is or may become subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to its business, including laws and regulations regarding consumer protection, advertising, privacy, intellectual property, manufacturing, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and economic or other trade prohibitions or sanctions. GeoTraqs modules are subject to regulation by various U.S. state and federal and foreign agencies, including the Federal Communications Commission. If GeoTraq fails to comply with any of these regulations, it could become subject to enforcement actions or the imposition of significant monetary fines, other penalties, or claims, which could harm its operating results or its ability to conduct its business. 18 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Currently, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, the former President of our recycling segment, beneficially owns approximately 9.3% of our common stock. In addition, Isaac Capital Group, LLC, Abacab Capital Management LLC and Energy Efficiency Investments LLC own approximately 8.6%, 6.4% and 9.7%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. Three of our current directors are also on the board of directors of Live Ventures Incorporated, a publicly held corporation controlled by Isaac Capital Group, LLC and led by Jon Isaac as its President and Chief Executive Officer. Because of such ownership, our principal shareholders may be able to significantly, and possibly adversely, affect our corporate decisions, including the election of the board of directors. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options, the number of shares outstanding of our common stock could increase substantially. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. The trading volumes in our common stock are highly variable, which could adversely affect the value and liquidity of your investment in our common stock. There is only a limited trading market for our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Markets. Transactions in our common stock may lack the volume and liquidity necessary to maintain an orderly trading market and this could result in both depressed and highly variable trading prices. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market at the same time could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading volume and market price of our common stock could also be adversely affected if we do not maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Markets. Our stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors, among others: Variations in our financial results. Changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing shareholders. General economic conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the price of our common stock to fall abruptly or remain significantly depressed. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our financial results. We do not intend to declare dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, will require approval by our lender and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Therefore, dividend income should not be expected from shares of our common stock. 19 The Nevada Revised Statute contains provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, prevent attempts to replace or remove current management and reduce the market price of our stock. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our articles of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to two million shares of blank check preferred stock. As a result, without further stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the NRS. Depending on the number of residents in the state of Nevada who own our shares, we could be subject to the provisions of Sections 78.378 et seq. of the Nevada Revised Statutes which, unless otherwise provided in the Companys articles of incorporation or by-laws, restricts the ability of an acquiring person to obtain a controlling interest of 20% or more of our voting shares. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws do not contain any provision which would currently keep the change of control restrictions of Section 78.378 from applying to us. We are subject to the provisions of Sections 78.411 et seq. of the Nevada Revised Statutes. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly held Nevada corporation from engaging in a combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporations board of directors before the person becomes an interested stockholder. After the expiration of the three-year period, the corporation may engage in a combination with an interested stockholder under certain circumstances, including if the combination is approved by the board of directors and/or stockholders in a prescribed manner, or if specified requirements are met regarding consideration. The term combination includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the corporations voting stock. A Nevada corporation may opt out from the application of Section 78.411 et seq. through a provision in its articles of incorporation or by-laws. We have not opted out from the application of this section. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our executive offices are located in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in a leased facility consisting of 15,071 square feet of office space. Recycling Centers We lease a total of fifteen recycling center facilities. We generally attempt to negotiate 24 to 36 month lease terms, to coincide with the term of our utility customer contracts in a particular center geography. We operate fifteen processing and recycling centers. All of our processing and recycling centers are leased facilities. Our recycling centers typically range in size from 3,000 to 32,000 square feet. We believe that we may require additional facilities to respond to future needs of ARCA. Sqft Location 3,840 Dartmouth, Nova Scotia 7,378 Stoney Creek, Ontario 18,505 Santa Fe Springs, California 5,900 Albuquerque, New Mexico 3,000 St. Paul, Minnesota 6,000 Indianapolis IN 15,000 Franklin, Massachusetts 17,680 Syracuse, New York 7,500 Commerce City, Colorado 5,300 Kent, Washington 12,161 Cudahy, Wisconsin 7,700 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 8,120 Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania 21,600 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 32,000 Louisville, Kentucky Geotraq We lease 2,987 square foot of office space in Las Vegas, Nevada for Geotraq. Customer Connexx We rent approximately 9,000 square feet of office space in Las Vegas, Nevada from Live, a related party. 20 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On March 6, 2015, a complaint was filed in United States District Court for the Central District of California by Jason Feola, individually and as a representative of a putative class consisting of purchasers of the Companys common stock between March 15, 2012 and February 11, 2015, against Appliance Recycling Centers of America, Inc. and certain current and former officers of the Company. Mr. Feola, pursuant to terms of his retainer agreement with The Rosen Law Firm, certified that he purchased 240 shares of the Companys common stock for $984 in total consideration. On May 7, 2015, the Company and the individual defendants were served the complaint. In July 2015, the Company and the individual defendants received an amended complaint. The complaint alleges that misstatements and omissions occurred in press releases and filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and that these misstatements or omissions constitute violations of Section 20 (a) and Section 10(b) of, and Rule 10b-5 under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In October 2015, the court held a hearing on the Company's motion to dismiss the complaint. On November 24, 2015, the United States District Court for the Central District of California entered an order granting the motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The Courts order provided that the dismissal was without prejudice and that the plaintiffs could file an amended complaint within 21 days of the issuance of the order. On December 15, 2015, the Company and the individual defendants were served with a second amended complaint. In May 2016, the court held a hearing on the Companys motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On October 21, 2016 the court entered a final judgement to dismiss the class action complaint with prejudice. On November 6, 2015, a complaint was filed in the Minnesota District Court for Hennepin County, Minnesota, by David Gray and Michael Boller, purporting to bring suit derivatively on behalf of the Company against twelve current and former officers and directors of the Company. The complaint alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company, and that the defendants have been unjustly enriched as a result thereof. The complaint sought damages, disgorgement, an award of attorneys fees and other expenses, and an order compelling changes to the Companys corporate governance and internal procedures. The Company and the other defendants vigorously denied plaintiffs allegations and have not admitted any liability or wrongdoing as part of the settlement. The court made no findings or determinations with respect to the merit of plaintiffs claims, and no payment is being made by the Company or the other defendants. The parties have reached a settlement that fully resolves plaintiffs claims and provides for the release of all claims asserted in the litigation. On August 2, 2017, the court entered an order granting preliminary approval of the settlement. On September 29, 2017, the court issued an order granting final approval of the settlement. As a condition of the settlement, the Company has agreed to provide certain training to employees in the Companys accounting department within one year of the settlement. The court also granted an application by plaintiffs counsel for attorneys fees, to be paid by the Companys insurance carrier. Other than this award of attorneys fees, no payment or other consideration was paid by the Company nor its officers or directors in connection with the settlement. On December 29, 2016, ARCA served a Minnesota state court complaint for breach of contract on Skybridge Americas, Inc. (SA), ARCAs primary call center vendor throughout 2015 and most of 2016. ARCA seeks damages in the millions of dollars as a result of alleged overcharging by SA and lost client contracts. On January 25, 2017, SA served a counterclaim for unpaid invoices in the amount of approximately $460,000 plus interest and attorneys fees. On March 29, 2017, the Hennepin County district court dismissed ARCAs breach of contract claim based on SAs overuse of its Canadian call center but permitted ARCAs remaining claims to proceed. On October 24, 2017, ARCA filed a motion for partial summary judgment; SA cross-motioned on November 6, 2017. On January 8, 2018, judgment was entered in SAs favor, which was amended as of February 28, 2018 for a total amount of $613,566.32 including interest and attorneys fees. On March 2, 2018, ARCA appealed the judgment to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. The appeal is in progress. On November 15, 2016, ARCA served an arbitration demand on Haier US Appliance Solutions, Inc., dba GE Appliances (GEA), alleging breach of contract and interference with prospective business advantage. ARCA seeks over $2 million in damages. On April 18, 2017, GEA served a counterclaim for approximately $337,000 in alleged obligations under the parties recycling agreement. Simultaneously with serving its counterclaim in the arbitration, which is venued in Chicago, GEA filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky seeking damages of approximately $530,000 plus interest and attorneys fees allegedly owed under a previous agreement between the parties. On December 12, 2017, the court stayed GEAs complaint in favor of the arbitration. Under the terms of ARCAs transaction with Recleim LLC, Recleim LLC is obligated to pay GEA on ARCAs behalf the amounts claimed by GEA in the arbitration and in the lawsuit pending in Kentucky. Those amounts have been paid into escrow pending the outcome of the arbitration. The parties have selected an arbitrator and the arbitration was deemed to have commenced as of May 29, 2018. AMTIM Capital, Inc. (AMTIM) acts as our representative to market our recycling services in Canada under an arrangement that pays AMTIM for revenues generated by recycling services in Canada as set forth in the agreement between the parties. A dispute has arisen between AMTIM and us with respect to the calculation of amounts due to AMTIM pursuant to the agreement. In a lawsuit filed in the province of Ontario, AMTIM claims a discrepancy in the calculation of fees due to AMTIM by us of approximately $2.0 million. Although the outcome of this claim is uncertain, we believe that no further amounts are due under the terms of the agreement and that we will continue to defend our position relative to this lawsuit. We are party from time to time to other ordinary course disputes that we do not believe to be material. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 21 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR OUR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market for Common Stock Our common stock trades under the symbol ARCI on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low prices for our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Capital Market. These quotations reflect the daily close prices. High Low 2017 First Quarter $ 1.40 $ 0.98 Second Quarter 1.10 0.56 Third Quarter 1.75 0.52 Fourth Quarter 1.38 0.84 2016 First Quarter $ 1.18 $ 0.68 Second Quarter 1.80 0.97 Third Quarter 1.53 0.95 Fourth Quarter 1.19 0.84 On June 8, 2018, the reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $0.81 per share. As of June 8, 2018, there were 112 stockholders of record, which excludes stockholders whose shares were held in nominee or street name by brokers. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not presently plan to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our credit agreement prohibits payment of dividends. Information concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in Part III, Item 12 of this report. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For a description of our significant accounting policies and an understanding of the significant factors that influenced our performance during the year ended December 30, 2017, this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (hereafter referred to as MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Part I, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K) for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. Note about Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K includes statements that constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are often characterized by the terms may, believes, projects, intends, plans, expects, or anticipates, and do not reflect historical facts. Specific forward-looking statements contained in this portion of the Form 10-K include, but are not limited to: (i) statements that are based on current projections and expectations about the markets in which we operate, (ii) statements about current projections and expectations of general economic conditions, (iii) statements about specific industry projections and expectations of economic activity, (iv) statements relating to our future operations and prospects, (v) statements about future results and future performance, (vi) statements that the cash on hand and additional cash generated from operations together with potential sources of cash through issuance of debt or equity will provide the Company with sufficient liquidity for the next 12 months, and (vii) statements that the outcome of pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on business, financial position and results of operations, cash flow or liquidity. 22 Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could affect our results, future performance and capital requirements and cause them to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those identified in this Form 10-K under Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as other factors that we are currently unable to identify or quantify, but that may exist in the future. In addition, the foregoing factors may generally affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. We do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Any information contained on our website www.arcainc.com or any other websites referenced in this Form 10-K are not part of this Form 10-K. Our Company Appliance Recycling Centers of America, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively, we, the Company, or ARCA) are in the business of recycling major household appliances in North America by providing turnkey appliance recycling and replacement services for utilities and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs through our subsidiaries ARCA Recycling, Inc. and ARCA Canada Inc. In addition, through our GeoTraq Inc. (GeoTraq) subsidiary, a development stage company, we are engaged in the development, design and, ultimately, we expect the sale of, cellular transceiver modules, also known as Cell-ID modules. Prior to December 30, 2017, we sold new major household appliances in the United States though a chain of seventeen Company-owned retail stores operating under the name ApplianceSmart . We operate two reportable segments: Recycling: Our recycling segment is a turnkey appliance recycling program. We receive fees charged for recycling, replacement and additional services for utility energy efficiency programs and have established 15 Regional Processing Centers (RPCs) for this segment throughout the United States and Canada. Technology: Our technology segment is in the development stage with the recent acquisition of GeoTraq. GeoTraq is in the process of developing technology to enable low cost, location-based products and services through the use of Cell-ID technology. Reporting Period. We report on a 52-or 53-week fiscal year. Our 2017 fiscal year (2017) ended on December 30, 2017 and included 52 weeks. Our 2016 fiscal year (2016) ended on December 31, 2016 and included 52 weeks. Application of Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion of the financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Management regularly reviews its estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical factors and other factors believed to be relevant under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions, estimates or conditions. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure of the application of these and other accounting policies. 23 Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain statement of income items from continuing operations and as a percentage of revenue, for the periods indicated: 52 Weeks Ended 52 Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 Statement of Income Data (in Thousands): Revenue $ 41,544 100.0% $ 40,459 100.0% Cost of revenue 28,399 68.4% 28,100 69.5% Gross profit 13,145 31.6% 12,359 30.5% Selling, general and administrative expense 13,376 32.2% 11,240 27.8% Operating income (loss) (231 ) -0.6% 1,119 2.8% Interest expense, net (894 ) -2.2% (1,168 ) -2.9% Other income 5,192 12.5% 9 0.0% Net income (loss) before income taxes 4,067 9.8% (40 ) -0.1% Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1,330 ) -3.2% 426 -1.1% Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interest 5,397 13.0% (466 ) -1.2% Net loss attributed to noncontrolling interest 496 1.2% 314 0.8% Net loss from discontinued operations and loss on sale, net of tax (5,775 ) -13.9% (1,299 ) -3.2% Net income (loss) attributed to shareholders' of parent $ 118 0.3% $ (1,451 ) -3.6% The following tables set forth revenues for key product and service categories, percentages of total revenue and gross profits earned by key product and service categories and gross profit percent as compared to revenues for each key product category indicated: 52 Weeks Ended 52 Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cost of Cost of Revenue Revenue Cost of Revenue Recycling, Byproducts, Carbon Offset $ 18,156 70.0% $ 16,465 70.9% Replacement Appliances 10,243 65.6% 11,635 67.5% Total Cost of Revenue $ 28,399 68.4% $ 28,100 69.5% 52 Weeks Ended 52 Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 Gross Gross Gross Gross Profit Profit % Profit Profit % Gross Profit Recycling, Byproducts, Carbon Offset $ 7,782 30.0% $ 6,763 29.1% Replacement Appliances 5,363 34.4% 5,596 32.5% Total Gross Profit $ 13,145 46.3% $ 12,359 44.0% Revenue Revenue increased $1,085 or 2.7% for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. Revenue increased in the following category as compared to the prior year period: Recycling, Byproducts and Carbon offset increased $2,710 or 11.7% The revenue increase was partially offset by the following decrease in revenue as compared to the prior year period: Replacement Appliances decreased $1,625 or 9.4%, due to budget limitations with the Companys two largest customers. 24 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased $299, or 1.1% for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016, primarily as a result of the change in revenue discussed above as well as the changes in gross profit discussed below. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $786 or 6.4%, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. Gross profit increased in the following category as compared to the prior year period: Recycling, Byproducts and Carbon Offset $1,019 or 15.1%. Gross profit increase was partially offset by the following decrease in gross profit as compared to the prior year period. Replacement Appliances decreased $233 or 4.2%. Gross profit margin as a percentage of sales were improved for Recycling, Byproducts and Carbon Offset 30.0% vs. 29.1% and Replacement Appliances 34.4% vs. 32.5%. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased $2,136 or 19.0%, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to Geotraq of $1,531. Geotraq expense represents ongoing expenses of $1,398 of amortization expense, $108 of personnel expense and $25 of facilities and general office expense. Operating Income As a result of the factors described above, operating loss of $231 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017, represented a decrease of $1,350 over the comparable prior 52 week period of $1,119. Interest Expense, net Interest expense net decreased $274 or 23.5%, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to increased rates of interest paid on the PNC and MidCap Financial lines of credit and decreased utilization of the lines of credit. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense increased $5,183 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The increase in other income and expense was primarily the result of the gain on sale of property $5,163, gain on sale of AAP interest of $81, and change in other income and expense of $61. Benefit for Income Taxes Benefit for income taxes increased $1,756 or 412.2%, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The increase in provision for income taxes is primarily attributable to the increase in pre-provision taxable income and the change in statutory tax rates. Net Income Net income before noncontrolling interest increased $5,863, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. Loss attributed to noncontrolling interest increased $182, for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. Please note that AAP operating results were consolidated for the period of January 1, 2016 through the date of sale and deconsolidation of August 15, 2017. 25 Loss from discontinued operations and sale of ApplianceSmart, net of tax, increased $4,476 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017, the date of sale of ApplianceSmart, as compared to the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The factors described above led to net income of $118 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017, from a net loss of $1,451 for the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. Segment Performance We report our business in the following segments: Recycling and Technology. We identified these segments based on a combination of business type, customers serviced and how we divide management responsibility. Our revenues and profits are driven through our recycling centers, e-commerce, individual sales reps and our internet services. Operating income by operating segment, is defined as income (loss) before net interest expense, other income and expense, provision for income taxes and income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest. 52 Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 52 Weeks Ended December 31, 2016 Segments in $ Segments in $ Recycling Technology Total Recycling Technology Total Revenue $ 41,544 $ $ 41,544 $ 40,459 $ $ 40,459 Cost of revenue 28,399 28,399 28,100 28,100 Gross profit 13,145 13,145 12,359 12,359 Selling, general and administrative expense 11,845 1,531 13,376 11,240 11,240 Operating income $ 1,300 $ (1,531 ) $ (231 ) $ 1,119 $ $ 1,119 52 Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 52 Weeks Ended December 31, 2016 Segments in % Segments in % Recycling Technology Total Recycling Technology Total Revenue 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% Cost of revenue 68.4% 0.0% 68.4% 69.5% 0.0% 69.5% Gross profit 31.6% 0.0% 31.6% 30.5% 0.0% 30.5% Selling, general and administrative expense 28.5% 100.0% 32.2% 27.8% 0.0% 27.8% Operating income 3.1% -100.0% -0.6% 2.8% 0.0% 2.8% Recycling Segment Segment results for ARCA Recycling, Customer Connexx, ARCA Canada and AAP (through August 15, 2017). Revenue for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 decreased by $1,085, or 2.7%, as compared to the prior year period, as a result of an increase in Recycling, Byproducts, Carbon Offset Revenue of $2,710 or 11.7%; partially offset by a decrease in Replacement Appliances of $1,625 or 9.4%. Cost of revenue for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 increased $299 or 1.1%, as compared to the prior year period; as a result of an increase in Recycling, Byproducts, Carbon Offset $1,691 or 10.3%; partially offset by a decrease in Replacement Appliances $1,392 or 12.0%. Operating income for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 increased $181, as compared to the prior year period; as a result of increased gross profit of $786; offset by increased selling, general and administrative expense of $605. Technology Segment Segment results for Technology include GeoTraq. Results for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 include selling, general and administrative expense of $1,531. No prior year period results as this acquisition was completed August 18, 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Based on our current operating plans, we believe that available cash balances, cash generated from our operating activities, sale of assets and or other refinancing of existing indebtedness will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, our continued investments in recycling centers for at least the next 12 months. The Company refinanced and replaced the PNC Bank Revolver loan facility with the MidCap Revolver in May 2017. On March 22, 2018, the Company paid off the MidCap Revolver. 26 On September 20, 2017 the Company received a written default notice from MidCap Funding Trust X, the Agent representing the Lenders for the MidCap Revolver. The Company strongly disagreed with the Lenders that any Event of Default has occurred and is reserving all of its options with respect to the Loan Agreement. The Company and the Agent were in active discussions for forbearance and resolution of the default. The Company and the Agent could not agree on terms of forbearance and resolution of the default. The Company paid off the MidCap Revolver on March 22, 2018. The Company is classifying the MidCap Revolver as a current liability until paid. As of December 30, 2017, we had total cash on hand of $3,313 and an additional $1,031 of available borrowing under the MidCap Revolver. As we continue to pursue strategic transactions to expand and grow our business, we regularly monitor capital market conditions and may raise additional funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. The amount, nature and timing of any borrowings or sales of debt or equity securities will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances; our then-current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. Cash Flows During the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $1,226, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2,659 during the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities of $1,433 as compared to the prior period; was primarily due to decreases from an decrease in net loss attributable to Company of $1,387, gain on sale of property $5,163, gain on sale of variable interest entity equity $81, gain on sale of property and equipment $134, change in deferred rent $85, change in other assets $870, change in deferred income taxes $1,536, change in working capital accounts $4,350; partially offset by increases in loss attributable to noncontrolling interest $182, in loss from discontinued operations $4,476, depreciation and amortization $1,188, amortization of debt issuance costs $68, stock based compensation expense $27, change in deferred compensation expense $28 and proceeds from assets held for sale discontinued operations $3,605. Cash provided by investing activities was $7,329 and used by investing activities of $412 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 and the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016, respectively. The $7,741 increase in cash provided by investing activities, as compared to the prior period, is primarily attributable to a proceeds from the sale of property of $6,785, sale of the 50% variable interest in AAP $800 less $35 of cash decrease on deconsolidation of $765, decrease in purchases of property and equipment of $353, a decrease in other investing activities $37; partially offset by the cash payment of intangible assets, associated with the acquisition of GeoTraq Inc. net of debt and series A preferred stock issued of $199. Cash used by financing activities was $6,268 and $3,224 for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2017 and the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2016, respectively. The $3,044 increase in cash used by financing activities, as compared to the prior period, was attributable to increased payments on the PNC line of credit $7,998, increased payments on debt obligations $790, payments on short term notes payable $500, increase in payment of debt issuance costs of $398; partially offset by net borrowing on the MidCap Financial Trust Revolver of $5,605 and proceeds from the issuance of debt obligations of $1,037. Sources of Liquidity We utilize cash on hand and cash generated from operations and, until March 22, 2018 funds available to us under our revolving loan facility with MidCap Financial Trust, to cover normal and seasonal fluctuations in cash flows and to support our various growth initiatives. Our cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost and consist primarily of demand deposits with commercial banks. MidCap Revolver On December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, our available borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement is $1,031 and $0, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for the period of May 10, 2017 through September 30, 2017 was 8.29%. We borrowed $62,845 and repaid $57,240 on the Credit Agreement during the period of May 10, 2017 through December 30, 2017, leaving an outstanding balance on the Credit Agreement of $5,605 and $0 at December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. We paid off the MidCap Revolver on March 22, 2018. Future Sources of Cash; New Acquisitions, Products and Services We may require additional debt financing and/or capital to finance new acquisitions, refinance existing indebtedness or other strategic investments in our business. Other sources of financing may include stock issuances and additional loans, or other forms of financing. Any financing obtained may further dilute or otherwise impair the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. 27 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Other than operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing. A summary of our operating lease obligations by fiscal year is included in Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in