Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2014 2013 Retail 51.2 % 53.6 % Recycling 35.1 32.1 Byproduct, including carbon offsets 13.7 14.3 100.0 % 100.0 % During fiscal years 2014 and 2013 , we operated two reportable segments: retail and recycling. The retail segment is comprised of sales generated through our ApplianceSmart stores. Our recycling segment includes all fees charged for collecting, recycling and installing appliances for utilities and other customers and includes byproduct revenue, which is generated primarily through the recycling of appliances. In 2014 and 2013 , we consolidated AAP in our financial statements. Sales generated by AAP are included in byproduct revenues in our recycling segment. Financial information about our segments is included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales and Marketing We use a variety of methods to promote awareness of our products and services. We believe that we are recognized as a leader in the recycling industry and in special-buy appliance retailing. Our ApplianceSmart concept includes establishing large showrooms in metropolitan locations where we offer consumers a selection of hundreds of appliances at each of our stores. Our visual branding consists of ample display of product, manufacturers signage and custom-designed ApplianceSmart materials. We advertise our stores through television, radio, print media, social media and direct mail. Through www.ApplianceSmart.com, consumers can also search our inventory and purchase appliances online. We market our appliance recycling and replacement services to utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs by contacting prospective end user customers directly, delivering educational presentations at conferences for energy efficiency professionals, participating in utility industry trade shows, networking with key affiliates of electric power and environmental associations, and promoting on our corporate website at www.ARCAInc.com. We submit sales proposals for our services to interested parties and in response to requests for bid. Seasonality We experience some seasonality in retail revenues, with revenues in the second and third calendar quarters being slightly higher than revenues in the first and fourth calendar quarters. 9 Table of Contents Promotional activities for programs in which the utility sponsor conducts all advertising are generally strong during the second and third calendar quarters, leading to higher customer demand for services during that time period. As a result, we experience a surge in business during the second and third calendar quarters, which generally declines through the fourth and first calendar quarters until advertising activities resume. Competition Our retail competition comes mainly from new-appliance and other special-buy retailers. Each ApplianceSmart store competes with local and national retail appliance chains, as well as with independently owned retailers. Many of these retailers have been in business longer than us and may have significantly greater assets. Many factors, including obtaining adequate resources to create and support the infrastructure required to operate large-scale appliance recycling and replacement programs, affect competition in the industry. We generally compete for contracts with several other appliance recycling businesses, energy services management companies and new-appliance retailers. We also compete with small hauling or recycling companies based in the programs service territory. Many of these companies, including used-appliance dealers that call themselves appliance recyclers, resell in the secondary market a percentage of the used appliances they accept for recycling. The unsalable units may not be properly processed to remove environmentally harmful materials because these companies do not have the capability to offer the full range of services we provide. We expect our primary competition for appliance recycling and replacement contracts with existing and new customers to come from a variety of sources, including: 1. Existing recycling companies. 2. Entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business. 3. Management consultants. 4. Major waste hauling companies. 5. Scrap metal processors. 6. National and regional new appliance retailers. In addition, utility companies and other customers may choose to provide all or some of the services required to operate their appliance recycling and replacement programs internally rather than contracting with outside vendors. We have no assurance that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Government Regulation Federal, state and local governments regulate appliance collection, recycling and sales activities. While some requirements apply nationwide, others vary by market. The many laws and regulations that affect appliance recycling include landfill disposal restrictions, hazardous waste management requirements and air quality standards. For example, the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act prohibit the venting of all Refrigerants while servicing or disposing of appliances. Each of our recycling facilities maintains the appropriate registrations, permits and licenses for operating at its location. We register our recycling centers as hazardous waste generators with the EPA and obtain all appropriate regional and local licenses for managing hazardous wastes. Licensed hazardous waste companies transport and recycle or dispose of the hazardous materials we generate. Our collection vehicles and our transportation employees are required to comply with all U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) licensing requirements. We have been recognized for our work in protecting the environment from the harmful effects of improper appliance disposal. In 2004, the EPA awarded us, along with our customer Southern California Edison Company (SCE), the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award for the environmentally responsible manner in which we collect and dispose of appliances. In 2007, we were again recognized by the EPA with a Best of the Best Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award as part of an appliance recycling team responsible for the most exceptional global contributions in the first two decades of the Montreal Protocol. We were recognized by SCE as the sole recipient of the 2010 Environmental Excellence Award for our exemplary support and service of SCEs Appliance Recycling Program and commitment to providing the highest levels of performance and service to SCE and program participants while maintaining the strong values and ethics that exemplify a value-added supplier. ARCA has provided services for SCE since 1994. In 2007, we became a founding reporter of The Climate Registry, an organization that provides information regarding the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions to various governmental and private agencies and businesses. 10 Table of Contents In 2009, our then President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, was selected to represent the appliance recycling industry in the Climate Action Reserves 23-member workgroup that was tasked with developing the U.S. Ozone-Depleting Substances Project Protocol for the Destruction of Domestic High Global Warming Potential Ozone-Depleting Substances. The Climate Action Reserve is a national offsets program working to ensure integrity, transparency and financial value in the U.S. carbon market. The protocol was issued on February 3, 2010, and provides guidance to account for, report and verify greenhouse gas emission reductions associated with destruction of high global warming potential ozone-depleting substances that would have otherwise been released to the atmosphere, including those used in both foam and refrigerant applications. In January 2013, through the authority of the California Air Resources Board, California launched a greenhouse gas (GHG) cap-and-trade program that will encompass 85% of the states emissions and affect all businesses operating in California by 2020. The first compliance period enforcing the GHG emissions limits for capped business sectors began January 1, 2013. Entities may meet up to eight percent of their compliance obligations with freely sold or traded offset credits, such as those created through the voluntary destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants. We have been an active participant in Californias developing carbon offset market and anticipate increased involvement as the program expands. Our retail stores obtain business licenses, sales tax licenses and permits required for their locations. Our delivery and service vehicles comply with all DOT licensing requirements. In addition, in 2010, ApplianceSmart became the first independent retailer in the country to partner with the EPA in the Responsible Appliance Disposal (RAD) Program. Through RAD, partners commit to employing best environmental practices to reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances and greenhouse gases through the proper disposal of refrigeration appliances at end of life. RAD partners report program results to the EPA annually to help quantify climate protection efforts. Although we believe that further governmental regulation of the appliance recycling industry could have a positive effect on us, we cannot predict the direction of future legislation. Under some circumstances, for example, further regulation could materially increase our operational costs. In addition, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liabilities because we handle hazardous materials. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. Employees On March 1, 2015, including those working at AAP, we had 342 full-time employees and 7 part-time employees, distributed approximately as follows: 1. 42% of our employees, including management, provide customer service, appliance collection, transportation and processing services at our recycling centers. 2. 54% of our employees, including management, work in our retail stores. 3. 4% of our employees are corporate management and support staff. We have no union or collective bargaining agreements covering any of our employees. Our employees have never caused our operations to be disrupted by a work stoppage, and we believe that our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our common stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business If we fail to implement our business strategy or if our business strategy is ineffective, our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon the effectiveness of our business strategy and our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. There are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: 11 Table of Contents Our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. We may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. We may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. We may record material charges against earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. In addition to the risks set forth above, effectiveness of and the successful implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. We may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. If we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve and could decline substantially. If our third-party collection or delivery services are unable to meet our promised pickup and delivery schedules, our net sales may decline due to a decline in customer satisfaction. We offer appliance pickup and delivery services, which are significantly outsourced to third-party providers. Our third-party services are subject to risks that are beyond our control. If appliances are not picked up on time, or at all, or products are not delivered on time, our clients and customers may cancel their orders or we may lose business from our clients and customers in the future. As a result, our net sales and profitability may decline. We have many competitors, direct and indirect. If we fail to execute our marketing and distribution strategies effectively, those competitors could take sales and market share from us. The retail market for home appliances is intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of national retailers, including Best Buy, Home Depot, Lowes, and Sears, as well as internet retailers and regional or independent major home appliance retail stores that sell many of the same or similar home appliances that we do. There are few barriers to entry and as a result new competitors may enter our existing retail markets at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower prices. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to discounts, promotions and sales of products and services. They may also have financial resources that enable them to weather economic downturns better than us. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: Lower pricing. More aggressive advertising and marketing. Enhanced product and service offerings. Extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we make available. Many factors, including existing and proposed governmental regulation, may affect competition in the appliance recycling and replacement side of our business. We generally compete with two or three companies based in the geographic area to be served, and they generally offer some of the same services we provide. We expect our primary competition for contracts with existing or new customers to come from entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business, energy management consultants, current recycling companies, major waste hauling companies, scrap metal processors and new and used appliance dealers. In addition, some of our customers, such as utility companies and municipalities, may operate appliance recycling and replacement programs internally rather than contracting with us or other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Competition could cause us to lose market share, net sales and customers, which could negatively impact our sales, increase our expenditures or reduce prices or margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A disruption in our relationships with, or in the operations of, any of our key suppliers could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. The success of our business and our growth strategy depend to a significant degree on our relationships with our suppliers. Our largest suppliers include Electrolux, GE Appliances, Whirlpool, LG, Samsung and Bosch. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with our major suppliers. We typically order our inventory through the issuance of individual purchase orders to vendors. We have no contractual assurance of the continued supply of merchandise in the amount and assortment we currently offer our customers and we may be subject to rationing by suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our top three suppliers represented approximately 86%, of our appliance purchases in fiscal 2014. The loss of any one or more of our key suppliers or our failure to establish and maintain relationships with these and other suppliers could materially adversely affect our supply and assortment of products, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements to supply products at competitive prices. Our suppliers also provide us with marketing funds and volume rebates. If our suppliers fail to continue these incentives, it could have a materially adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. The financial condition of our suppliers may also adversely affect their access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. Negative impacts on the financial condition of any of our suppliers may cause suppliers to reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures and product promotions. It may also cause them to change their pricing policies, which could impact demand for their products. The current weakness in, and volatility of, the overall economy makes it difficult for us and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. A cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. We use computers and transact, receive, transmit and store electronic data in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to communicate with our employees and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. We also rely on a Payment Card Industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. Any such compromise of our security or the security of information residing with our business associates or third parties could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and may expose us to material costs, penalties, compensation claims, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. In addition, any compromise of our data security may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. Failure to effectively manage our costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Certain elements of our cost structure are largely fixed in nature. The negative impact that sales and/or margin declines have on our business could make it more challenging for us to maintain or increase our operating income. The competitiveness in our industry and increasing price transparency means that the focus on achieving efficient operations is greater than ever. As a result, we must continuously focus on retaining and growing sales, maintaining and improving margins and managing our cost structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating leases, other facility expenses or indirect spending could materially adversely affect our profitability. Any failure of our information technology infrastructure or management information systems could cause a disruption in our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to operate our business from day to day largely depends on the efficient operation of our information technology infrastructure and management information systems. We use our management information systems to conduct our operations and 13 Table of Contents plan critical corporate and business functions, including store operations, recycling operations, sales management, supply chain and inventory management, financial reporting and accounting, delivery and other customer services and various administrative functions. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. Operating legacy systems subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading and replacing these systems and retaining sufficiently skilled personnel to maintain and operate the systems which may also place demands on management time, as well as create other risks and costs. Any failure that is not covered by our disaster recovery plan could cause an interruption in our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our sales may not be an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our current and historical sales figures have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our sales results and profitability, including: Changes in competition, such as pricing pressure, and the opening of new stores by competitors in our markets. Periodic sale of carbon offsets resulting from the responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Inability to comply with or to identify third parties capable of complying with protocols required for responsible destruction of certain refrigerants. Fluctuating commodity prices and available markets for our byproduct sales. Changes in recycling and replacement programs with utility customers. General economic conditions. Consumer trends. Weather conditions in our markets. Timing of promotional events. The locations of our stores and traffic drawn to those areas. Our ability to execute our business strategies effectively. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. General economic factors and other conditions that may affect our business, include periods of slow economic growth or recession, political factors including uncertainty in social or fiscal policy, an overly anti-business climate or sentiment, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing for us and our customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, and acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism. Additionally, any of these circumstances concentrated in a region of the U.S. in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: Consumer confidence in the economy. Unemployment trends. Consumer debt levels. Consumer credit availability. The housing and home improvement markets. Gasoline and fuel prices. Interest rates and inflation. Foreign currency exchange rates. Slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income. Natural disasters. National and geopolitical concerns. Tax rates and tax policy. Other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Commodity prices. Volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. The above factors could result in slowdown in the economy or an uncertain economic outlook, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to hire, train and retain key management, qualified managers, sales associates and other employees, we could have difficulty implementing our business strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed in the future, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. Other factors that impact our ability to maintain sufficient levels of qualified employees in all areas of the business include, but are not limited to, the Companys reputation, employee morale, the current macroeconomic environment, competition from other employers, and our ability to offer adequate compensation packages. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to our employees. Our ability to control labor costs, which may impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits or labor relations, such as the Employee Free Choice Act, and health and other insurance costs. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We could incur charges due to impairment of long-lived assets. As of January 3, 2015, we had long-lived asset balances of $11.8 million, which are subject to periodic testing for impairment. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. A significant amount of judgment is involved in the periodic testing. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow generated from operations at AAP could result in impairment charges for the related fixed assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Impairment charges, if any, resulting from the periodic testing would be non-cash. We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are: The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, state and national jurisdictions; The impact of proposed, new or changing statues and regulations, including, but not limited to, corporate governance matters, environmental impact, financial reform, Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act, health care reform, labor reform, Payment Card Industry compliance, and/or other as yet unknown legislation that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure. The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards. The impact of litigation, including class action or individual lawsuits involving shareholders, and labor and employment litigation related matters. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, economic or political instability, natural disasters, public health emergencies and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenues, or may force us to increase prices, thereby adversely impacting net sales and profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking action which, in either case, could adversely affect our operations or reduce our net income. There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. Any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages. Additionally, defending against regulatory changes, lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of managements attention and resources from other matters which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. Our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including steel, aluminum and copper, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. The majority of the recyclables we process for sale are steel and non-ferrous metals. The fluctuations in the market prices or demand for such commodity items, particularly demand from China and Turkey, can affect our future operating income and cash flows negatively, such as we experienced in 2014 and 2013. As we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. 15 Table of Contents In the past we have also earned a significant amount of revenue from the sale of carbon credits under the California Cap-and-Trade Program. The creation of carbon offsets involves a consultant's establishment of a project that includes the successful destruction of the Company's ozone-depleting refrigerants. The project process involves a significant degree of regulatory compliance and only a limited number of facilities are approved to destroy ozone-depleting refrigerants. The uncertainty of regulatory project approval after carbon offsets have been produced results in unpredictable assurance of or timing for revenue recognition. If we are unable to find businesses that can effectively dispose of ozone-depleting refrigerants or if we do not receive project approval for the resulting carbon offsets, we could experience a material adverse effect to our operating results. Significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. The price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Our collection and delivery agents need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and delivery of appliance activities in both our retail and recycling segments. Supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. Additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses will increase and many of our vendors may raise their prices as a means to offset their rising costs. We may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs to our customers and some contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. We may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs. We lease most of our store locations, corporate headquarters and recycling centers. Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to locate desirable property for new stores or recycling centers and renew leases for existing locations. Because there is no assurance that we will be able to locate acceptable real estate for new stores or recycling centers, or re-negotiate leases for existing locations at similar or favorable terms at the end of the lease term, we could be forced to move or exit a market if another favorable arrangement cannot be made. Furthermore, a significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in lease expense as we open new locations and renew leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring leases could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business. If an existing recycling center, store, future store or recycling centers is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores or recycling centers that we close could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls could result in inaccurate reporting of financial results and harm our business. We are required to comply with a variety of reporting, accounting and other rules and regulations. As such, we maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. A control system can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. Furthermore, compliance with existing requirements is expensive and we may need to implement additional finance and accounting and other systems, procedures and controls to satisfy our reporting requirements. If our internal control over financial reporting continues to be evaluated as ineffective, such failure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported 16 Table of Contents financial information, negatively affect the market price of our common stock, subject us to regulatory investigations and penalties, and adversely impact our business and financial condition. We face risks with respect to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our reputation, our business, and our consolidated results of operations. We purchase merchandise from third parties and offer this merchandise to customers for sale. This merchandise could be subject to recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. Changes in laws and regulations could also impact the type of merchandise we offer to customers. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues that result in recalls of merchandise. In addition, individuals may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from third-party merchandise offered by us, and we may be subject to future lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of development and management resources, or reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could harm our business. Our revenues from recycling and appliance replacement contracts are very difficult to project and the loss or modification of major recycling and appliance replacement contracts could adversely impact our profits. Our business is dependent largely upon our ability to obtain new contracts and continue existing contracts for appliance recycling services and appliance replacement programs with utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs. Contracts with these entities generally have initial terms of one to three years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. However, some contracts are for programs that are non-recurring. Although we continue to respond to utility companies and other sponsors of energy efficiency programs requesting bids for upcoming recycling services, we are still dependent on certain customers for a large portion of our revenues. Our major utility customers accounted for approximately 28% and 23% of our total revenues for 2014 and 2013, respectively. The loss or material reduction of business from any of these major customers could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. While we wish to add new recycling and appliance replacement contracts in 2015 and beyond, we cannot assure you that our existing contracts will continue, that they will be sufficiently profitable, that existing customers will continue to use our services at current levels or we will be successful in obtaining new recycling and replacement contracts going forward. Our revenues from recycling contracts are subject to seasonal fluctuations and are dependent on the utilities advertising and promotional activities for contracts in which we do not provide advertising services. In our business with utility companies, we experience seasonal fluctuations that impact our operating results. Our recycling revenues are generally higher during the second and third calendar quarters and lower in the first and fourth calendar quarters, due largely to the promotional activity schedules over which we have no control in advertising programs managed by the utilities. Our staff communicates client-driven advertising activities internally in an effort to achieve an operational balance. We expect that we will continue to experience such seasonal fluctuations in recycling revenues. ARCA Advanced Processing, LLCs ( AAP) financial performance is dependent on market prices for recovered materials. AAPs revenues and profitability are driven by the market prices for various recovered materials, which include steel, copper, aluminum, other non-ferrous metals, glass, plastic, oil, and certain types of refrigerants. Market prices for such materials may vary significantly. AAP may also be impacted by the market price for carbon offsets that it has historically sold and for which the market is highly subject to regulatory approvals. If market prices for such materials and carbon offsets are less than projected, AAP may be unable to achieve profitable operations. Under our credit agreement with PNC, we are limited with respect to the level of investment and/or the extension of credit that we are able to provide AAP. In the event that AAP is unable to achieve suitable levels of profitable operations, we may be unable to extend financing to support the ongoing operations of AAP, without obtaining an amendment in our credit facility with PNC. Alternatively, AAP would need to obtain additional sources of financing in the form of debt or equity. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity or other securities in AAP or the Company. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available, available on acceptable terms, or permitted by the terms of our current debt agreement. If AAP is unable to survive financially, we are at risk for a significant portion of AAPs indebtedness due to our corporate guarantee of some of their debt. 17 Table of Contents Although we receive all of their recyclable appliances generated from twelve states in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, the volume of recyclable appliances under the contract with GE is not guaranteed. Also, the contract with GE is set to expire in March 2016 and is terminable earlier on a 60-day notice if a material breach occurs and is not cured. The operations of AAP and the Company's Louisville, KY RPC are materially dependent on the volume of appliances acquired from GE. However, GE has not guaranteed any specific volume of appliances under the contract. Also, the Louisville RPC needs volume in addition to the volume from GE to operate successfully. The contract with GE is for a period of six years from the first date of collection, which was March 31, 2010, of recyclable appliances from GEs Northeast and Mid-Atlantic delivery areas. The contract with GE is set to expire on March 31, 2016, if not renewed, and may be terminated earlier by either party if the other party is in material breach of the contract and does not cure the breach within sixty (60) days after receiving written notice from the other party. We may need new capital to fully execute our growth strategy. Our business involves providing comprehensive, integrated appliance recycling and replacement services and operating a chain of retail stores. This commitment will require a significant continuing investment in capital equipment and leasehold improvements and could require additional investment in real estate. Our total capital requirements will depend on, among the other things discussed in this annual report, the number of recycling centers and the number and size of retail stores operating during 2015 and thereafter. Currently, we have eighteen retail stores and twelve recycling centers, including AAP, in operation. If our revenues are lower than anticipated, our expenses are higher than anticipated or our line of credit cannot be maintained, we will require additional capital to finance our operations or AAPs operation. Even if we are able to maintain our line of credit, we may need additional equity or other capital in the future. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity (including the issuance of preferred stock) or other securities. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available to us, available on acceptable terms or permitted by the terms of our current debt agreements. In addition, if we sell additional equity to raise funds, all outstanding shares of common stock will be diluted. Changes in governmental regulations relating to our recycling business could increase our costs of operations and adversely affect our business. Our appliance recycling centers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements related to providing turnkey services for energy efficiency programs. These requirements vary by market location and include, for example, laws concerning the management of hazardous materials and the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, which require us to recapture CFC refrigerants from appliances to prevent their release into the atmosphere. Our ability to generate revenue from the sale of carbon offsets created through the voluntary destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants could also be adversely affected by governmental regulations as the market develops. Should the federal government mandate the destruction of ozone-depleting refrigerants in the future, we would be required to destroy these substances without the benefit of generating carbon offsets, which would increase the cost of our operations. We have registered our centers with the EPA as hazardous waste generators and have obtained required licenses from appropriate state and local authorities. We have agreements with approved and licensed hazardous waste companies for transportation and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials generated through our recycling processes. As is the case with all companies handling hazardous materials, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liability. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. Our lender has the right to demand payment in full of the borrowings under our line of credit in the event of a default. If our lender were to do so, we would not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our operations would be severely limited unless and until new financing at similar amounts, rates, terms and conditions is obtained. On January 24, 2011, we entered into a Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, (Revolving Credit Agreement) with PNC Bank, National Association (PNC) that provides us with a $15.0 million revolving line of credit. The Revolving Credit Agreement had a stated maturity date of January 24, 2016, if not renewed. The Revolving Credit Agreement includes a lockbox agreement and a subjective acceleration clause and, as a result, we have classified the revolving line of credit as a current liability. The Revolving Credit Agreement is collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets, and PNC is also secured by an inventory repurchase agreement with Whirlpool Corporation for Whirlpool purchases only. We also issued a $750,000 letter of credit in favor of Whirlpool Corporation. The Revolving Credit Agreement requires, starting with the 18 Table of Contents fiscal quarter ending March 30, 2014, and continuing at the end of each quarter thereafter, that we meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0, measured on a trailing twelve-month basis. The Revolving Credit Agreement limits investments we can purchase, the amount of other debt and leases we can incur, the amount of loans we can issue to our affiliates and the amount we can spend on fixed assets along, with prohibiting the payment of dividends. Under our existing Revolving Credit Agreement we have certain obligations, including maintaining certain financial covenants. While we are currently in compliance with all of our covenants, in the future, if we fail to maintain them and are not able to obtain relief from any covenant violation from our lenders, an event of default could occur and the lenders could cease lending to us, accelerate the payments of our debt and foreclose on our assets that secure our Revolving Credit Agreement. Any such action by the lenders would materially and adversely affect our financial performance and could even result in the Companys bankruptcy. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Currently, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 8.1% of our common stock. As of March 19, 2015, our officers and directors together beneficially hold approximately 18.6% of our common stock. Medallion Capital, Inc. owns approximately 8.5% of our outstanding common shares. Isaac Capital Group, LLC. and Abacab Capital Management LLC own approximately 11.9% and 7.6%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. Because of such ownership, our principal shareholders may be able to significantly, and possibly adversely, affect our corporate decisions, including the election of the board of directors. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options, the number of shares outstanding of our common stock could increase substantially. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. The trading volumes in our common stock are highly variable, which could adversely affect the value and liquidity of your investment in our common stock. There is only a limited trading market for our common stock, which is quoted on the NASDAQ. Transactions in our common stock may lack the volume and liquidity necessary to maintain an orderly trading market and this could result in both depressed and highly variable trading prices. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market at the same time could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors, among others: Variations in our financial results. Changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing shareholders. General economic conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the price of our common stock to fall abruptly or remain significantly depressed. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to volatility of our stock price, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely our financial results. We do not intend to declare dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, will require approval by our lender and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Therefore, you should not expect to receive dividend income from shares of our common stock. Our corporate documents and Minnesota law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested shareholder in a transaction not approved by a committee consisting of disinterested members of our board of directors, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for four years, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 302A.673, interested shareholder generally means someone owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past four years, subject to certain exceptions. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our executive offices are located in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in a leased facility that includes approximately 11 acres of land. The building contains approximately 126,000 square feet, consisting of 27,000 square feet of office space, 66,000 square feet of operations and processing space, and 33,000 square feet of retail space. We also own and use a building in Compton, California, with 11,000 square feet of office space and 35,000 square feet of warehouse and processing space. As of January 3, 2015, we operated eighteen stores in four states with an average square footage of 31,500 square feet. Three of these stores also have production or recycling space. Market Stores Minnesota 8 Ohio 4 Georgia 4 Texas 2 Total 18 We lease all of our retail store facilities. We generally attempt to negotiate lease terms of five to ten years that include options to renew for our retail stores. We operate twelve processing and recycling centers. One is located in the facility that we own in Compton, California. Ten are leased facilities we operated in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia; Oakville, Ontario; St. Louis Park, Minnesota; San Antonio, Texas; Decatur, Illinois; Earth City, Missouri; Commerce City, Colorado; Kent, Washington; Tualatin, Oregon; and Louisville, Kentucky. Our recycling centers typically range in size from 6,000 to 42,000 square feet. We are also operating the AAP processing and recycling center located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which leases an 80,000-square-foot facility. We believe all of the facilities we occupy are adequate for our future needs. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On March 6, 2015, a complaint was filed in United States District Court for the Central District of California by Jason Feola, individually and as a representative of a class consisting of purchasers of the Companys common stock between March 15, 2012 and February 11, 2015, against Appliance Recycling Centers of America, Inc. and certain current and former officers of the Company. Mr. Feola, pursuant to terms of his retainer agreement with The Rosen Law Firm, certified that he purchased 240 shares 20 Table of Contents of the Companys common stock for $984 in total consideration. To our knowledge, neither the Company nor the individual defendants have been served the complaint. The complaint alleges that misstatements and omissions occurred in press releases and filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and that these misstatements or omissions constitute violations of Section 20 (a) and Section 10(b) of, and Rule 10b-5 under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This matter has been forwarded to our insurance carrier and we intend to contest vigorously the claims made in the complaint. In December 2012, we ceased operations at our Conyers, Georgia, facility and abandoned the leased property. The landlord subsequently made a claim of approximately $500,000 against us based upon lease termination negotiations that had been progressing between the parties but ended. The landlord f iled a claim for breach of settlement in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia. The case settled in January 2014 and the Company agreed to keep the terms confidential. In February 2012, various individuals commenced a class action lawsuit against Whirlpool Corporation (Whirlpool) and various distributors of Whirlpool products, including Sears, The Home Depot, Lowes and us, alleging certain appliances Whirlpool sold through its distribution chain, which includes us, were improperly designated with the ENERGY STAR qualification rating established by the U.S. Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency. The claims against us include breach of warranty claims, as well as various state consumer protection claims. The amount of the claim is, as yet, undetermined. Whirlpool has offered to fully indemnify and defend its distributors in this lawsuit, including us, and has engaged legal counsel to defend itself and the distributors. We are monitoring Whirlpools defense of the claims and believe the possibility of a material loss is remote. In 2007, we entered into an agreement with AMTIM Capital, Inc. (AMTIM) to act as our representative to market our recycling services in Canada under an arrangement that pays AMTIM for revenues generated by recycling services in Canada as set forth in the agreement between the parties. A dispute has arisen between AMTIM and us with respect to the calculation of amounts due to AMTIM pursuant to the agreement. In a lawsuit against us, AMTIM claims a discrepancy of approximately $2.0 million in the calculation of fees due to AMTIM by us. We commenced an action in the U.S. District Court for a determination of the parties rights under the agreement. AMTIM started its own action in Ontario, Canada, against us for amounts it claims are due pursuant to the agreement. We moved the Canadian court for a stay of that action pending the U.S. action. AMTIM requested the U.S. District Court to stay the U.S. action pending resolution of the Canadian court action. AMTIMs motion was denied by the U.S. District Court and as a result, we obtained a default judgment against AMTIM approving the manner in which we have historically calculated fees due to AMTIM. Shortly thereafter, the Canadian court dismissed our motion to stay the Canadian action. We thereafter sought dismissal of the Canadian action for lack of jurisdiction of the Canadian courts. That motion was denied by the Canadian court. We appealed that denial and the Canadian appellate court upheld the denial indicating the Companys position may support a dismissal ruling on other grounds. We moved for dismissal on such other grounds and the Canadian lower court denied that motion. The Company, thereafter, appealed that decision to the Ontario appellate court. The appellate court denied the Companys appeal, allowing the case to go forward to trial. The Company is currently evaluating its options to request review of the appellate court decision by the Supreme Court of Canada. Although the outcome is uncertain, we believe the possibility of a material loss is remote. We are party from time to time to other ordinary course disputes that we do not believe to be material. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 21 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR OUR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market for Common Stock Our common stock trades under the symbol ARCI on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low prices for our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Capital Market. These quotations reflect the daily close prices. High Low 2014 First Quarter $ 3.32 $ 2.80 Second Quarter 4.20 2.68 Third Quarter 4.23 2.79 Fourth Quarter 2.95 2.56 2013 First Quarter $ 1.60 $ 1.20 Second Quarter 2.63 1.35 Third Quarter 3.04 2.30 Fourth Quarter 3.63 2.86 On March 19, 2015, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $2.58 per share. As of March 19, 2015, there were 112 stockholders of record, which excludes stockholders whose shares were held in nominee or street name by brokers. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not presently plan to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our credit agreement prohibits payment of dividends. Information concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in Part III, Item 12 of this report. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with