Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies, of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of March 31, 2015 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $85 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment 17 Table of Contents share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the quarter, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an interim impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2014 , would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts the fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine a discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are short-term in nature or a longer-term trend. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate goodwill for impairment. Changes in our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our March 31, 2015 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $30 million impact on our Q1 2015 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate as of March 31, 2015 , and December 31, 2014 was 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union, and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We are also subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. Although we believe our tax 18 Table of Contents estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken in 2005 and 2006, and we are currently contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, Amazon could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. 19 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Operating activities $ (1,499 ) $ (2,502 ) $ 7,845 $ 5,345 Investing activities (1,847 ) (924 ) (5,989 ) (4,250 ) Financing activities (652 ) (175 ) 3,955 (557 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $3.2 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $1.5 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2014 . See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to higher operating cash flows. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital 2 , the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including our decision to finance property and equipment under capital leases and other finance lease arrangements, and our net income (loss). Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $13.8 billion and $17.4 billion as of March 31, 2015 , and December 31, 2014 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $3.9 billion and $5.4 billion as of March 31, 2015 , and December 31, 2014 , and were primarily British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(1.5) billion and $(2.5) billion for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in non-cash charges to net income, including depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, and an increase in working capital. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(1.8) billion and $(924) million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 , with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $871 million and $1.1 billion during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . This primarily reflects additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, the majority of which is to support AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $129 million and $128 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $365 million and $0 during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . ______________________ (1) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for additional information as well as alternative free cash flow measures. (2) Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. 20 Table of Contents Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(652) million and $(175) million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal payments on obligations related to capital and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt. Principal payments on obligations related to capital leases, finance leases, and repayments of long-term debt were $857 million and $361 million in Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $954 million and $716 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . This reflects additional investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We expect this trend to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt were $183 million and $65 million in Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $22 million and $121 million in Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . We had no borrowings outstanding under our $2.0 billion Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2015 . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 5 Long-Term Debt for additional information. We recorded tax provisions of $71 million and $73 million in Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings, and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In 2014 , we also had accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property that reduced our U.S. taxable income as a result of U.S. legislation that expired in December 2014. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $55 million and $38 million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . As of December 31, 2014 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.9 billion and we had approximately $443 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, which expired in December 2014. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from Cash and cash equivalents to Accounts receivable, net and other on our consolidated balance sheets. As of March 31, 2015 , and December 31, 2014 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $222 million and $450 million . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $5.1 billion as of March 31, 2015 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle 3 . On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover 4 was 9 for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, and borrowing available under our credit agreements will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain capital, finance, and operating lease arrangements, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. 21 Table of Contents The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations Beginning in the first quarter of 2015, we changed our reportable segments to North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect changes in the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 8 Segment Information. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, AWS sales, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net Sales: North America $ 13,406 $ 10,808 International 7,745 7,883 AWS 1,566 1,050 Total consolidated $ 22,717 $ 19,741 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 24 % 23 % International (2 ) 18 AWS 49 69 Total consolidated 15 23 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 24 % 23 % International 14 18 AWS 49 69 Total consolidated 22 23 Net Sales Mix: North America 59 % 55 % International 34 40 AWS 7 5 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 15% in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(1.3) billion and $10 million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 24% in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, from sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings. International sales decreased 2% in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales decrease primarily reflects the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange rates offset by increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(1.3) billion and $24 million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, from sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings. 23 Table of Contents AWS sales increased 49% in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. Segment Operating Income (Loss) Segment operating income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Segment Operating Income (Loss) North America $ 517 $ 290 International (76 ) (33 ) AWS 265 245 The increase in North America segment operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased unit sales, partially offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment capacity and spending on technology infrastructure. The increase in International segment operating loss in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased levels of operating expenses incurred, including costs to expand our fulfillment capacity and marketing efforts, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Additionally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on International segment operating loss. The increase in AWS segment operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results for our North America and International segments is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 1,299 $ 849 Shipping costs (4) (2,309 ) (1,829 ) Net shipping cost $ (1,010 ) $ (980 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 53 % 34 % Shipping costs 26 31 Net shipping cost 3 28 Percent of Net Sales: (5) Shipping revenue 6.1 % 4.6 % Shipping costs (10.9 ) (9.8 ) Net shipping cost (4.8 )% (5.2 )% ___________________ (1) Excludes amounts charged on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Includes amounts earned from Fulfillment by Amazon programs related to shipping services. (4) Includes sortation and delivery center costs. (5) Includes North America and International segment net sales. 24 Table of Contents We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing placement of fulfillment centers, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. We have aggregated our North America and International segment products and services into groups of similar product and services and provided the supplemental disclosure of net sales (in millions) below. We evaluate whether additional disclosure is appropriate when a product or service category begins to approach a significant level of net sales. For the periods presented no individual product or service represented more than 10% of net sales. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net Sales: North America Media $ 2,969 $ 2,825 Electronics and other general merchandise 10,250 7,829 Other (1) 187 154 Total North America $ 13,406 $ 10,808 International Media $ 2,320 $ 2,642 Electronics and other general merchandise 5,378 5,188 Other (1) 47 53 Total International $ 7,745 $ 7,883 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 5 % 12 % Electronics and other general merchandise 31 28 Other 22 18 Total North America 24 23 International Media (12 )% 4 % Electronics and other general merchandise 4 27 Other (12 ) 13 Total International (2 ) 18 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America Media 5 % 13 % Electronics and other general merchandise 31 28 Other 22 19 Total North America 24 23 International Media 2 % 4 % Electronics and other general merchandise 21 26 Other 2 11 Total International 14 18 _____________________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as certain advertising services and our co-branded credit card agreements. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 15,395 $ $ 15,395 $ 14,055 $ $ 14,055 Fulfillment 2,759 (90 ) 2,669 2,317 (81 ) 2,236 Marketing 1,083 (35 ) 1,048 870 (27 ) 843 Technology and content 2,754 (233 ) 2,521 1,991 (169 ) 1,822 General and administrative 427 (49 ) 378 327 (44 ) 283 Other operating expense (income), net 44 44 35 35 Total operating expenses $ 22,462 $ (407 ) $ 22,055 $ 19,595 $ (321 ) $ 19,274 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 19 % 19 % 29 % 29 % Marketing 25 24 38 37 Technology and content 38 38 44 44 General and administrative 31 34 33 32 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 12.1 % 11.7 % 11.7 % 11.3 % Marketing 4.8 4.6 4.4 4.3 Technology and content 12.1 11.1 10.1 9.2 General and administrative 1.9 1.7 1.7 1.4 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists primarily of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product, digital media content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, as well as from the expansion of digital offerings. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as Technology and content as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment and customer service centers. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as Technology and content. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. 26 Table of Contents The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and service sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, direct sales, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, payroll and related expenses, including AWS direct sales related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure costs. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, is included in cost of sales. We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2015, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased spending on technology infrastructure allocated to our AWS segment, and an increase in payroll and related costs associated with expanding our products and services. Technology infrastructure costs consist of servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and payroll expenses. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. During Q1 2015, we expanded our technology infrastructure principally by increasing our capacity for AWS service offerings globally, compared to the comparable prior year period. Additionally, the costs associated with operating and maintaining our expanded infrastructure have increased over time, corresponding with increased usage. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in technology infrastructure to support increased usage. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. The increase in payroll and related costs is primarily due to the expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, including AWS, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of products and services. During Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 , we capitalized $153 million (including $24 million of stock-based compensation) and $150 million (including $22 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $152 million and $133 million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. 27 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $407 million and $321 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . The increase is primarily due to an increase in the number of stock-based compensation awards granted to existing and new employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $44 million and $35 million for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Income (Loss) from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income (loss) from operations increased to $255 million in Q1 2015 , from $146 million in Q1 2014 . We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $11 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $115 million and $42 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our long-term debt, and capital and finance lease arrangements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(130) million and $5 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign-currency gains (losses). Income Taxes Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment. Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. In 2015 , our effective tax rate will be significantly affected by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and the adverse effect of losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We record valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Our effective tax rate may also be adversely impacted by the amount of our pretax income, or loss, relative to our income tax expense, nondeductible expenses, and changes in tax law such as the expiration of the U.S. federal credit for research and development expenditures at the end of 2014. Our income tax provision was $71 million and $73 million in Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . 28 Table of Contents Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(7) million and $61 million during Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 . The primary component of this activity during Q1 2014 was our share of a gain recorded by LivingSocial related to the sale of its Korean operations. This gain was partially offset by operating losses incurred by LivingSocial during the period. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates The effect on income (loss) from operations from changes in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 24,005 $ (1,288 ) $ 22,717 $ 19,731 $ 10 $ 19,741 Operating expenses 23,727 (1,265 ) 22,462 19,603 (8 ) 19,595 Income (loss) from operations 278 (23 ) 255 128 18 146 ___________________ (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of Free cash flow, operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flow, and ratios based on them, because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, which are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,845 $ 5,345 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,684 ) (3,854 ) Free cash flow $ 3,161 $ 1,491 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,989 ) $ (4,250 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 3,955 $ (557 ) 29 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow L e ss Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of capital lease obligations, and Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,845 $ 5,345 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,684 ) (3,854 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (1,537 ) (863 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (132 ) (47 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 1,492 $ 581 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,989 ) $ (4,250 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 3,955 $ (557 ) Free Cash Flow L e ss Finance Principal Lease Repayments and Capital Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which are included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased for cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,845 $ 5,345 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,684 ) (3,854 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,246 ) (2,243 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (132 ) (47 ) Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases $ (1,217 ) $ (799 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,989 ) $ (4,250 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 3,955 $ (557 ) All of these free cash flow measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flow do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards 30 Table of Contents accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expenses is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the Fulfillment, Marketing, Technology and content, and General and administrative line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our income (loss) from operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on April 23, 2015 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 23, 2015 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. Second Quarter 2015 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $20.6 billion and $22.8 billion , or to grow between 7% and 18% compared with second quarter 2014 . Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(500) million and $50 million , compared to $(15) million in second quarter 2014 . This guidance includes approximately $600 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. 31 Table of Contents