Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in the risk factors below, global economic and geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Many of the risks discussed below also impact our customers, including third-party sellers, which could indirectly have a material adverse effect on us. Business and Industry Risks We Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, e-commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, healthcare, communications, and transportation and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital content, satellites, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition. The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues. In addition, profitability or other intended benefits, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them, which investments are often significant. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the 6 Table of Contents value of those investments being written down or written off. In addition, our sustainability initiatives may be unsuccessful for a variety of reasons, including if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of new technologies or if we do not successfully plan or execute new strategies, which could harm our business or damage our reputation. Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: local economic and political conditions; government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service offerings and of competition); restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs, and restrictions around the import and export of certain products, technologies, and components); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership; restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, electronic devices, and communications services; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, payments, advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; lower levels of use of the internet; lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. The inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth. The Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and India regulate Amazons and its affiliates businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide certain technology services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses to provide services. In India, the government restricts the ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold an indirect minority interest in an entity that is a third-party seller on the www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities comply with existing 7 Table of Contents laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in their regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that these governments will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce contractual relationships we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses in those countries being subject to fines and other financial penalties, having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut down entirely. In addition, because China-based sellers account for significant portions of our third-party seller services and advertising revenues, and China-based suppliers provide significant portions of our components and finished goods, regulatory and trade restrictions, data protection and cybersecurity laws, economic factors, geopolitical events, security issues, or other factors negatively impacting China-based sellers and suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality, promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to global economic conditions such as recessionary fears or rising inflation, natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network optimization and inventory are magnified during periods of high demand. As a result of holiday sales, as of December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities) because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores and the related receivables settle quickly. Typically, there is also a corresponding increase in accounts payable as of December 31 due to inventory purchases and third-party seller sales. Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year as vendors and sellers are paid, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. We Are Impacted by Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of online service providers is currently unsettled. In addition, governmental agencies have in the past and could in the future require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under our seller programs, we maintain policies and processes designed to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers descriptions, and to prevent sellers in our stores or through other stores from selling unlawful, counterfeit, pirated, or stolen goods, selling goods in an unlawful or unethical manner, violating the proprietary rights of others, or otherwise violating our policies. When these policies and processes are circumvented or fail to operate sufficiently, it can harm our business or damage our reputation and we could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. Under our A-to-z Guarantee, we may reimburse customers for payments up to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. We Face Risks Related to Adequately Protecting Our Intellectual Property Rights and Being Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection is not available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be 8 Table of Contents unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We are not always able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Actions taken by third parties that license our proprietary rights may materially diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property requires the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property do not always adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, have in the past, and may in the future, result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or significant payments for damages, including to satisfy indemnification obligations or to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights. Such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, our and our customers development and use of artificial intelligence may result in increased claims of infringement or other claims, including those based on unauthorized use of third-party technology or content. Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service. We Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international stores and product and service offerings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Due to these fluctuations, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. We also hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities in foreign currencies such as British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, and Japanese Yen. When the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. Operating Risks Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, Financial, and Other Resources We are continuing to rapidly and significantly expand our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. The complexity of the current scale of our business can place significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and our expansion increases these factors. Failure to manage growth effectively could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. We Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Growth Rate We are not always able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we are not always able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by, among other things, general economic, business, and geopolitical conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to factors described elsewhere in this section and the following: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers demands; our ability to retain and expand our network of sellers; our ability to offer products on favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; the introduction of competitive stores, websites, products, services, price decreases, or improvements; 9 Table of Contents changes in usage or adoption rates of the internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, web services, satellite communications services, and artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, products, and services, including outside the U.S.; timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and infrastructure; the success of our geographic, service, and product line expansions; the extent to which we finance, and the terms of any such financing for, our current operations and future growth; the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages or injunctive relief and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results; variations in the mix of products and services we sell; variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns; the extent to which we offer fast and free delivery, continue to reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits to our customers; factors affecting our reputation or brand image (including any actual or perceived inability to achieve our goals or commitments, whether related to sustainability, customers, employees, or other topics), and public perceptions regarding our positions on social or ethical issues and our development and use of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and automation technologies, products, and services; the extent to which we invest in technology and infrastructure, fulfillment, and other expense categories; availability of and increases in the prices of transportation (including fuel), resources such as land, water, and energy, commodities like paper and packing supplies and hardware products, and technology infrastructure products, including as a result of inflationary pressures; constrained labor markets, which increase our payroll costs; the extent to which operators of the networks between our customers and our stores successfully charge fees to grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access to our online services; our ability to collect amounts owed to us when they become due; the extent to which new and existing technologies, or industry trends, restrict online advertising or affect our ability to customize advertising or otherwise tailor our product and service offerings; the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; the extent to which we fail to maintain our unique culture of innovation, customer obsession, and long-term thinking, which has been critical to our growth and success; disruptions from natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks, armed hostilities, and political conflicts, including those involving China), labor or trade disputes (including restrictive governmental actions impacting us, our customers, and our third-party sellers and suppliers in China or other foreign countries), tariff policy changes, and similar events; and potential negative impacts of climate change, including: increased operating costs due to more frequent extreme weather events or climate-related changes, such as rising temperatures and water scarcity; increased investment requirements associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy; decreased demand for our products and services as a result of changes in customer behavior; increased compliance costs due to more extensive and global regulations and third-party requirements; and reputational damage resulting from perceptions of our environmental impact. We Face Risks Related to Successfully Optimizing and Operating Our Fulfillment Network and Data Centers Failures to adequately predict customer demand and consumer spending patterns or otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment network and data centers successfully from time to time result in excess or insufficient fulfillment or data center capacity, service interruptions, increased costs, and impairment charges, any of which could materially harm our business. As we continue to add fulfillment and data center capability or add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our networks effectively. 10 Table of Contents In addition, failure to optimize inventory management or staffing in our fulfillment network increases our net shipping cost by increasing the distance products are shipped and reducing the number of units per shipment or delivery. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers. For example, productivity across our fulfillment network is affected by regional labor market constraints, which increase payroll costs and make it difficult to hire, train, and deploy a sufficient number of people to operate our fulfillment network as efficiently as we would like. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment network. Our failure to adequately predict seller demand for storage or to properly handle such inventory or the inability of the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment services to accurately forecast product demand may result in us being unable to secure sufficient storage space or to optimize our fulfillment network or cause other unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. An inability to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or performance problems, staffing limitations, or other difficulties experienced by these companies or by our own transportation systems, including as a result of labor market constraints and related costs, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and security issues, labor or trade disputes, and similar events. We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Incidents Because we collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including confidential, classified, sensitive, proprietary, and business and personal information, failure to prevent, detect, or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, or other security incidents or vulnerabilities affecting our or our vendors or customers technology, products, and systems, could: expose us or our customers to a risk of loss, disclosure, or misuse of such information; adversely affect our operating results; result in litigation, liability, or regulatory action (including under laws related to privacy, data use, data protection, data security, network security, and consumer protection); deter customers or sellers from using our stores, products, and services; and otherwise harm our business and reputation. We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions. Some of our systems have experienced past security incidents, and, although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance that future incidents will not have material adverse effects on our operations or financial results. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer data and prevent, detect, or mitigate such incidents, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security incident at a third-party vendor or customer, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may fail to operate as intended or be circumvented. We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently accepting or fulfilling orders or providing services to customers and third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. Steps we take to add software and hardware, upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and improve the stability and efficiency of our systems may not be sufficient to avoid system interruptions or delays that could adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations in the past have been, or in the future could be, damaged or interrupted due to events such as natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities), computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, operational failures (including from energy shortages), and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage to compensate for related losses. Any of these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel or the Failure to Hire and Retain Highly Skilled and Other Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, including our President and CEO. We do not have key person life insurance policies. We also rely on other highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the industries in which we operate, as well as senior management, has historically been intense. For example, we experience 11 Table of Contents significant competition in the technology industry, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. In addition, changes we make to our current and future work environments may not meet the needs or expectations of our employees or may be perceived as less favorable compared to other companies policies, which could negatively impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees, the failure to successfully transition key roles, or the inability to hire, train, retain, and manage qualified personnel, could harm our business. We also rely on a significant number of personnel to operate our stores, fulfillment network, and data centers and carry out our other operations. Failure to successfully hire, train, manage, and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs can strain our operations, increase payroll and other costs, and harm our business and reputation. In addition, changes in laws and regulations applicable to employees, independent contractors, and temporary personnel could increase our payroll costs, decrease our operational flexibility, and negatively impact how we are able to staff our operations and supplement our workforce. We are also subject to labor union efforts to organize groups of our employees from time to time. These organizational efforts, if successful, decrease our operational flexibility, which could adversely affect our operating efficiency. In addition, our response to any organizational efforts could be perceived negatively and harm our business and reputation. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks We have significant suppliers, including content and technology licensors, and in some cases, limited or single-sources of supply, that are important to our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing of merchandise and content. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components, or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Decisions by our current suppliers to limit or stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components, or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or geopolitical events, or for other reasons, may result in our being unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. For example, we rely on a limited group of suppliers for semiconductor products, including products related to artificial intelligence infrastructure such as graphics processing units. Constraints on the availability of these products could adversely affect our ability to develop and operate artificial intelligence technologies, products, or services. In addition, violations by our suppliers or other vendors of applicable laws, regulations, contractual terms, intellectual property rights of others, or our Supply Chain Standards, as well as products or practices regarded as unethical, unsafe, or hazardous, could expose us to claims, damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Our Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships Expose Us to Risks We provide physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services to businesses through commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, we provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our stores. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the amount of business we can service. We may not be able to implement, maintain, and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties to perform services. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of our commercial agreements is partially dependent on the volume of the other companys sales. Therefore, when the other companys offerings are not successful, the compensation we receive may be lower than expected or the agreement may be terminated. Moreover, we may not be able to enter into additional or alternative commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. We also may be subject to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining, or developing these services. As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We may in the future enter into amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships create additional risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; impairment of other relationships; variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. 12 Table of Contents Our Business Suffers When We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may in the future acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions involve risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; problems retaining key personnel; additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested; the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including as a result of acquisitions; the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the company we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; the difficulty of completing such transactions, including obtaining regulatory approvals or satisfying other closing conditions, and achieving anticipated benefits within expected timeframes, or at all; the difficulty of incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights into our offerings, and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; the difficulty of integrating a new companys accounting, financial and sustainability reporting, management, information and data security, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not successfully implemented; losses we may incur as a result of declines in the value of an investment or as a result of incorporating an investees financial performance into our financial results; for investments in which an investees financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, or investments for which we are required to file financial statements or provide financial information, the dependence on the investees accounting, financial and sustainability reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes; the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company; the risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may differ from or be more significant than the risks our other businesses face; potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business or only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. We Face Significant Inventory Risk In addition to risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in customer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products, spoilage, and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product or offering a new service, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components requires significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and at times we are unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or to meet demand during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. 13 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Payments-Related Risks We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from a customers bank account, consumer invoicing, checks, and payment upon delivery. For existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we currently are subject to, and may become subject to additional, regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing. In each case, it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if renewed on less favorable terms or terminated. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements, as well as any breach, compromise, or failure to otherwise detect or prevent fraudulent activity involving our data security systems, could result in our being liable for card issuing banks costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf. Jurisdictions subject us to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation of transferred funds, consumer disclosures, maintaining or processing data, and authentication. We are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as: changes in interest rates; conditions or trends in the internet and the industry segments we operate in; quarterly variations in operating results; fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for internet-related companies in particular; changes in financial estimates by us or decisions to increase or decrease future spending or investment levels; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce or technology companies; and transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, social media activity, and speculation. Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. Legal and Regulatory Risks Government Regulation Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet, physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, digital content, web services, electronic devices, advertising, artificial intelligence technologies and services, satellite communications services, healthcare, and other products and services that we offer or sell. These regulations and laws cover taxation, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, transportation, communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental and climate-related regulation, electronic contracts 14 Table of Contents and other communications, competition, employment, trade and protectionist measures, web services, the provision of online payment services, registration, licensing, and information reporting requirements, unencumbered internet access to our services or access to our facilities, the design and operation of websites, health, safety, and sanitation standards, the characteristics, legality, and quality of products and services, product labeling, the commercial operation of unmanned aircraft systems, healthcare, and other matters. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, and consumer protection apply to aspects of our operations such as the internet, e-commerce, digital content, web services, electronic devices, advertising, artificial intelligence technologies and services, satellite communications services, and healthcare. A large number of jurisdictions regulate our operations, and the extent, nature, and scope of such regulations is evolving and expanding as the scope of our businesses expand. We are regularly subject to formal and informal reviews, investigations, and other proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities under existing laws, regulations, or interpretations or pursuing new and novel approaches to regulate our operations. For example, we face a number of open investigations based on claims that aspects of our operations infringe competition or consumer protection rules, including aspects of Amazons operation of its stores, including its fulfillment network and Prime, and certain aspects of AWSs offering of cloud services. We strongly dispute these claims and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these investigations. Similarly, we face investigations under a growing patchwork of laws and regulations governing the collection, use, and disclosure of data, the interpretation of which continues to evolve, leading to uncertainty about how regulators will view our privacy practices. In addition, regulators and lawmakers are increasingly focused on controlling additional aspects of the operations of technology companies and companies they have characterized to be online gatekeepers through the application of existing regulations and laws and the adoption of new regulations and laws, which increases our compliance costs and limits the operation of our business. Unfavorable regulations, laws, decisions, or interpretations by government or regulatory authorities applying those laws and regulations, or inquiries, investigations, or enforcement actions threatened or initiated by them, could cause us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil and criminal liability or penalties (including substantial monetary fines), diminish the demand for, or availability of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, damage our reputation, impede our growth, or otherwise have a material effect on our operations. The media, political, and regulatory scrutiny we face, which may continue to increase, amplifies these risks. Claims, Litigation, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations As an innovative company offering a wide range of consumer and business products and services around the world, we are regularly subject to actual and threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings, including proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities, involving a wide range of issues, including patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment (including the characterization of delivery drivers), competition and antitrust, privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties (including artificial intelligence technologies and services), healthcare, and other matters. The number and scale of these proceedings have increased over time as our businesses have expanded in scope and geographic reach, as our products, services, and operations have become more complex and available to, and used by, more people, and as governments and regulatory authorities seek to regulate us on a pre-emptive basis. For example, we are litigating a number of matters alleging price fixing, monopolization, and consumer protection claims, including those brought by state attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission. Any of these types of proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, disruption of our operations, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, and other factors. The outcomes of these matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. Until the final resolution of such matters, we may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings, including as a result of a settlement, could involve licenses, sanctions, consent decrees, or orders requiring us to make substantial future payments, preventing us from offering certain products or services, requiring us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies, damaging our reputation, or otherwise having a material effect on our operations. We Are Subject to Product Liability Claims When People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell or Manufacture Some of the products we sell or manufacture expose us to product liability or food safety claims relating to personal injury or illness, death, or environmental or property damage, and can require product recalls or other actions. Third parties who sell products using our services and stores also expose us to product liability claims. Additionally, under our A-to-z Guarantee, 15 Table of Contents we may reimburse customers for certain product liability claims up to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such agreements. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Face Additional Tax Liabilities and Collection Obligations We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including other liabilities for tax collection obligations due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. Such changes could come about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These include new obligations to withhold or collect sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result in liability for third party obligations. For example, non-U.S. jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader international tax reform is implemented. In addition, the European Union and other countries (including those in which we operate) have enacted or have committed to enact global minimum taxes, which may increase our tax expense. Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional taxes imposed on us prospectively or retroactively or additional taxes or penalties resulting from the failure to comply with any collection obligations or failure to provide information about our customers, suppliers, and other third parties for tax reporting purposes to various government agencies. In some cases we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date. Our tax expense and liabilities are also affected by other factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special or extraterritorial tax regimes, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, and changes in our tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense, assets, and liabilities. We are also subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions that can result in tax assessments against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy can have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters, interpretations of certain tax laws by authorities, and judicial, administrative, and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversy may be materially different from our expectations. For example, the Indian tax authority has asserted that tax applies to cloud services fees paid to Amazon in the U.S. We are contesting this position; however, if this matter is adversely resolved, we may be required to pay additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical tax accruals. We Are Subject to Risks Related to Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. We are subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, some of these contracts are subject to periodic funding approval and/or provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents Item 1C. Cybersecurity We have processes in place for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from potential unauthorized occurrences on or through our electronic information systems that could adversely affect the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information systems or the information residing on those systems. These include a wide variety of mechanisms, controls, technologies, methods, systems, and other processes that are designed to prevent, detect, or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, or other security incidents or vulnerabilities affecting the data. The data include confidential, proprietary, and business and personal information that we collect, process, store, and transmit as part of our business, including on behalf of third parties. We also use systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security incident at a third-party vendor or customer. Additionally, we use processes to oversee and identify material risks from cybersecurity threats associated with our use of third-party technology and systems, including: technology and systems we use for encryption and authentication; employee email; content delivery to customers; back-office support; and other functions. As part of our risk management process, we conduct application security assessments, vulnerability management, penetration testing, security audits, and ongoing risk assessments. We also maintain a variety of incident response plans that are utilized when incidents are detected. We require employees with access to information systems, including all corporate employees, to undertake data protection and cybersecurity training and compliance programs annually. We have a unified and centrally-coordinated team, led by our chief security officer, that is responsible for implementing and maintaining centralized cybersecurity and data protection practices at Amazon in close coordination with senior leadership and other teams across Amazon. Reporting to our chief security officer are a number of experienced chief information security officers responsible for various parts of our business, including AWS, each of whom is supported by a team of trained cybersecurity professionals. In addition to our extensive in-house cybersecurity capabilities, at times we also engage assessors, consultants, auditors, or other third parties to assist with assessing, identifying, and managing cybersecurity risks. Our cybersecurity risks and associated mitigations are evaluated by senior leadership, including as part of our enterprise risk assessments that are reviewed by the Audit Committee and our Board of Directors. Such risks and mitigations are also subject to oversight by the Security Committee of our Board of Directors.Additional information about cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors, under the heading We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Incidents, which should be read in conjunction with the information above. The Security Committee, which is comprised of independent directors, oversees our policies and procedures for protecting our cybersecurity infrastructure and for compliance with applicable data protection and security regulations, and related risks. The Security Committee receives reports regarding such risks from management, including our chief security officer, and reports to the Board at least annually. The Security Committee also oversees the Boards response to any significant cybersecurity incidents. Our chief security officer, who has extensive cybersecurity knowledge and skills gained from over 15 years of work experience on the security team at Amazon and an extensive career in the technology and cybersecurity industries as a senior executive in the federal government, heads the team responsible for implementing and maintaining cybersecurity and data protection practices at Amazon and reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. 17 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2024, we operated the following facilities (in thousands): Description of Use Leased Square Footage (1) Owned Square Footage Location Office space 29,551 9,104 North America Office space 23,771 1,802 International Physical stores (2) 23,975 707 North America Physical stores (2) 222 International Fulfillment, data centers, and other 448,168 36,869 North America Fulfillment, data centers, and other 176,287 18,958 International Total 701,974 67,440 ___________________ (1)For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. (2)This includes 618 North America and 27 International stores as of December 31, 2024. Segment Leased Square Footage (1) Owned Square Footage (1) North America 457,104 20,741 International 166,673 11,741 AWS 24,875 24,052 Total 648,652 56,534 ___________________ (1)Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are allocated among the segments based on usage and primarily relate to facilities that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10 Segment Information. We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Washingtons Puget Sound region and Arlington, Virginia. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol AMZN. Holders As of January 29, 2025, there were 12,135 shareholders of record of our common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. Reserved 19 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer demand and spending, inflation, interest rates, regional labor market constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the internet, online commerce, cloud services, and new and emerging technologies, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, global economic and geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results or outcomes to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers. The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of items sold by third-party sellers as service sales. We seek to increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection, across numerous product categories. We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, and digital content subscriptions. Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. Free cash flows are driven primarily by increasing operating income and efficiently managing accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, and cash capital expenditures, including our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment. Increases in operating income primarily result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused on improving the customer experience. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. See Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for additional information on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures. We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary to run AWS, and a portion of our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary to build and run our technology infrastructure; to build, enhance, and add features to our online stores, web services, electronic devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment network. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent on the timing of capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize unnecessary growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean culture. We seek to turn inventory quickly and collect from consumers before our payments to vendors and sellers become due. Because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by numerous factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, supply chain disruptions and resulting vendor lead times, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We also expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by third-party sellers, the mix 20 Table of Contents of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment and other terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment terms with suppliers. We expect spending in technology and infrastructure will increase over time as we add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees. Our technology and infrastructure investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and infrastructure, including AWS, and expansion of new and existing product categories and service offerings, as well as in infrastructure to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, will continue to improve users experience on the internet and increase its ubiquity in peoples lives. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services to developers and enterprises of all sizes. We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives including the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services. We seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders interests. We utilize restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation because we believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder dilution, we include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 10.8 billion and 10.9 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2024. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in foreign exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term. We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of currency changes. In addition, the remeasurement of our intercompany balances can result in significant gains and losses associated with the effect of movements in foreign exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item addressed above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 in Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (GAAP) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with GAAP that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product 21 Table of Contents vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2024, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $365 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to change due to economic, political, and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 84,946 $ 115,877 Investing activities (49,833) (94,342) Financing activities (15,879) (11,812) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $86.8 billion and $101.2 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2024. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $23.5 billion and $25.5 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2024. Our foreign currency balances include British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Indian Rupees, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $84.9 billion and $115.9 billion in 2023 and 2024. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. The increase in operating cash flow in 2024, compared to the prior year, was due to an increase in net income (loss), excluding non-cash expenses, and changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, customer and vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for 22 Table of Contents acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(49.8) billion and $(94.3) billion in 2023 and 2024, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities and cash capital expenditures. Cash capital expenditures were $48.1 billion, and $77.7 billion in 2023 and 2024, which primarily reflect investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS business growth) and in additional capacity to support our fulfillment network. We expect cash capital expenditures to increase in 2025, primarily driven by investments in technology infrastructure. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $5.8 billion and $7.1 billion in 2023 and 2024. We funded the acquisition of 1Life Healthcare, Inc. (One Medical) in 2023 with cash on hand. In Q3 2023, we invested $1.25 billion in a convertible note from Anthropic, PBC. In Q1 2024, we invested $2.75 billion in a second convertible note. In Q4 2024, we entered into an agreement and invested $1.3 billion in a third convertible note, and will invest an additional $2.7 billion by Q4 2025. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(15.9) billion and $(11.8) billion in 2023 and 2024. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $18.1 billion and $5.1 billion in 2023 and 2024. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from payments of short-term debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $34.0 billion and $17.0 billion in 2023 and 2024. Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $642 million and $854 million in 2023 and 2024. We had no borrowings outstanding under the two unsecured revolving credit facilities or the commercial paper programs as of December 31, 2024. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 6 Debt for additional information. As of December 31, 2024, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $6.3 billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized research and development expenses. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing us to expense a portion of qualified property, primarily equipment. These enhanced deductions are scheduled to phase out annually from 2023 through 2026. Our federal tax provision included accelerated depreciation deductions for 2022, 2023, and 2024. Additionally, effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes, which delays the deductibility of these expenses. Cash paid for U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes (net of refunds) totaled $11.2 billion and $12.3 billion for 2023 and 2024. As of December 31, 2023 and 2024, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $503 million and $3.5 billion. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 6 Debt and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, we have purchase obligations and open purchase orders, including for inventory and capital expenditures, that support normal operations and are primarily due in the next twelve months. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain finance and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, economic conditions and actions by policymaking bodies are contributing to changing interest rates and significant capital market volatility, which, along with any increases in our borrowing levels, could increase our future borrowing costs. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10 Segment Information. Overview Macroeconomic factors, including changes in inflation and interest rates, global economic and geopolitical developments, and the development and adoption of technologies and services, including artificial intelligence, have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are difficult to isolate and quantify. These could affect customer demand for our products and services, our ability to predict growth needs, expenses, and the benefits we gain from new technologies. We expect some or all of them to continue to impact our operations into Q1 2025. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital media content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Net Sales: North America $ 352,828 $ 387,497 International 131,200 142,906 AWS 90,757 107,556 Consolidated $ 574,785 $ 637,959 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 12 % 10 % International 11 9 AWS 13 19 Consolidated 12 11 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 12 % 10 % International 11 10 AWS 13 19 Consolidated 12 11 Net Sales Mix: North America 61 % 61 % International 23 22 AWS 16 17 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 11% in 2024, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced net sales by $2.3 billion in 2024. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 10% in 2024, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our fast shipping offers. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced North America net sales by $462 million in 2024. International sales increased 9% in 2024, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our fast shipping offers. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced International net sales by $1.8 billion in 2024. 24 Table of Contents AWS sales increased 19% in 2024, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes primarily driven by long-term customer contracts. Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 304,739 $ 326,288 Fulfillment 90,619 98,505 Technology and infrastructure 85,622 88,544 Sales and marketing 44,370 43,907 General and administrative 11,816 11,359 Other operating expense (income), net 767 763 Total operating expenses $ 537,933 $ 569,366 Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline): Cost of sales 6 % 7 % Fulfillment 7 9 Technology and infrastructure 17 3 Sales and marketing 5 (1) General and administrative (1) (4) Other operating expense (income), net (39) (1) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 53.0 % 51.1 % Fulfillment 15.8 15.4 Technology and infrastructure 14.9 13.9 Sales and marketing 7.7 6.9 General and administrative 2.1 1.8 Other operating expense (income), net 0.1 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, partially offset by fulfillment network efficiencies, including lower transportation costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced cost of sales by $1.7 billion in 2024. Shipping costs were $89.5 billion and $95.8 billion in 2023 and 2024. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as Technology and infrastructure as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment 25 Table of Contents processing and related transaction costs are included in Fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as Technology and infrastructure. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third-party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions. The increase in fulfillment costs in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased sales and investments in our fulfillment network, partially offset by fulfillment network efficiencies. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced fulfillment costs by $223 million in 2024. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Infrastructure Technology and infrastructure costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and infrastructure investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and infrastructure to increase over time as we continue to add employees and infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and infrastructure costs in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to an increase in spending on infrastructure, partially offset by decreased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings and a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful life of our servers. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced technology and infrastructure costs by $244 million in 2024. We currently expense the majority of the costs associated with the development of our satellite network for global broadband service (including production, launch, and payroll costs, and launch services deposits upon launch). We will capitalize certain of these costs once the service achieves commercial viability, including sales to customers. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third-party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The decrease in sales and marketing costs in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to decreased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, partially offset by increased advertising expenses. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced sales and marketing costs by $263 million in 2024. While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative The decrease in general and administrative costs in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to a decrease in payroll and related expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $767 million and $763 million during 2023 and 2024, and was primarily related to asset impairments and the amortization of intangible assets. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Operating Income (Loss) North America $ 14,877 $ 24,967 International (2,656) 3,792 AWS 24,631 39,834 Consolidated $ 36,852 $ 68,593 Operating income was $36.9 billion and $68.6 billion for 2023 and 2024. We believe that operating income is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. For more information on the operating expenses that impact segment operating income, see Operating Expenses and the descriptions of operating expense line item changes on pages 25 to 27, and Note 10 Segment Information on page 65. The increase in North America operating income in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales and increased advertising sales, partially offset by increased fulfillment and shipping costs. The International operating income in 2024, as compared to the operating loss in the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales and increased advertising sales, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates did not significantly impact operating income in 2024. The increase in AWS operating income in 2024, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased sales, decreased payroll and related expenses, and a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful lives of our servers, partially offset by spending on technology infrastructure that was primarily driven by additional investments to support AWS business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates positively impacted operating income by $240 million in 2024. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $2.9 billion and $4.7 billion during 2023 and 2024, primarily due to a higher average balance of invested funds at prevailing rates. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term marketable debt securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $3.2 billion and $2.4 billion in 2023 and 2024 and was primarily related to debt and finance leases. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4 Leases and Note 6 Debt for additional information. Our long-term lease liabilities were $77.3 billion and $78.3 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2024. Our long-term debt was $58.3 billion and $52.6 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2024. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4 Leases and Note 6 Debt for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $938 million and $(2.3) billion during 2023 and 2024. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2023 and 2024 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $797 million and $(1.6) billion from our equity investment in Rivian. 27 Table of Contents Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, developments in tax controversies, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions. We recorded a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $7.1 billion and $9.3 billion in 2023 and 2024. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 9 Income Taxes for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for 2023 and 2024 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 84,946 $ 115,877 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (48,133) (77,658) Free cash flow $ 36,813 $ 38,219 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (49,833) $ (94,342) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (15,879) $ (11,812) Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of finance leases and Principal repayments of financing obligations. Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for 2023 and 2024 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 84,946 $ 115,877 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (48,133) (77,658) Free cash flow 36,813 38,219 Principal repayments of finance leases (4,384) (2,043) Principal repayments of financing obligations (271) (669) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ 32,158 $ 35,507 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (49,833) $ (94,342) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (15,879) $ (11,812) 28 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications, principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in Principal repayments of finance leases, and Principal repayments of financing obligations. All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for 2023 and 2024 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 84,946 $ 115,877 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (48,133) (77,658) Free cash flow 36,813 38,219 Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (310) (572) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (683) (767) Principal repayments of financing obligations (271) (669) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ 35,549 $ 36,211 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (49,833) $ (94,342) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (15,879) $ (11,812) ___________________ (1)For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2024, this amount relates to equipment included in Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications of $642 million and $854 million. (2)For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2024, this amount relates to property included in Principal repayments of finance leases of $4,384 million and $2,043 million. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 Year Ended December 31, 2024 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 574,785 $ 71 $ 574,856 $ 637,959 $ 2,335 $ 640,294 Operating expenses 537,933 531 538,464 569,366 2,466 571,832 Operating income 36,852 (460) 36,392 68,593 (131) 68,462 ___________________ (1)Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2)Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 29 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on February 6, 2025, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of February 6, 2025, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic and geopolitical conditions and customer demand and spending (including the impact of recessionary fears), inflation, interest rates, regional labor market constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the internet, online commerce, cloud services, and new and emerging technologies, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. First Quarter 2025 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $151.0 billion and $155.5 billion, or to grow between 5% and 9% compared with first quarter 2024. This guidance anticipates an unusually large, unfavorable impact of approximately $2.1 billion, or 150 basis points, from foreign exchange rates. Also, as a reminder, in first quarter 2024 the impact from Leap Year added approximately $1.5 billion in net sales. Operating income is expected to be between $14.0 billion and $18.0 billion, compared with $15.3 billion in first quarter 2024. This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded. 30 Table of Contents