Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies, of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of March 31, 2018 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $150 million . In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where 20 Table of Contents we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, the applicability of special tax regimes, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies, changes to our existing businesses and operations, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments and how they are financed, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, accounting, and other areas, including European Union state aid rules. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the 2017 Tax Act). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The 2017 Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The 2017 Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment (NOPAs) from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and we have been contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs in determining transfer pricing adjustments in 2005 and 2006 for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. In September 2017, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies. 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 2017 2018 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (1,619 ) $ (1,791 ) $ 17,547 $ 18,194 Investing activities (1,350 ) (533 ) (10,210 ) (26,265 ) Financing activities (888 ) (2,164 ) (3,608 ) 8,653 Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $31.0 billion and $25.0 billion as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $11.1 billion and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(1.6) billion and $(1.8) billion for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertising agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(1.4) billion and $(533) million for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $1.9 billion and $2.7 billion during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS). Capital expenditures included $74 million and $60 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $45 million and $13 million during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(888) million and $(2.2) billion for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $909 million and $2.3 billion in Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases was $1.9 billion and $2.3 billion during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 , reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and other. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $21 million and $125 million in Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . We had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement and $489 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit Facility as of March 31, 2018 . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 5 Long-Term Debt for additional information. Additionally, on April 12, 2018 , we acquired Ring Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $900 million , net of cash acquired. We recorded net tax provisions of $229 million and $287 million in Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . The 2017 Tax Act includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of 22 Table of Contents these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. The 2017 Tax Act extended through 2026 and enhanced the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $246 million and $513 million for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . As of December 31, 2017 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $226 million and we had approximately $855 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commissions October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commissions decision, of approximately 250 million, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from Cash and cash equivalents to restricted cash, which is classified within Accounts receivable, net and other on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $1.3 billion and $940 million . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $13.1 billion as of March 31, 2018 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain capital, finance, and operating lease arrangements, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. Our results reflect the operations of Whole Foods Market from the date of acquisition in August 2017. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 8 Segment Information. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, Amazon Prime membership fees, advertising services, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Net Sales: North America $ 20,992 $ 30,725 International 11,061 14,875 AWS 3,661 5,442 Consolidated $ 35,714 $ 51,042 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 24 % 46 % International 16 34 AWS 43 49 Consolidated 23 43 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 23 % 46 % International 21 21 AWS 43 48 Consolidated 24 39 Net sales mix: North America 59 % 60 % International 31 29 AWS 10 11 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 43% in Q1 2018 compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $1.6 billion for Q1 2018 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 46% in Q1 2018 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and the impact of the acquisition of Whole Foods Market. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased 34% in Q1 2018 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $1.5 billion for Q1 2018 . AWS sales increased 49% in Q1 2018 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. 24 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 596 $ 1,149 International (481 ) (622 ) AWS 890 1,400 Consolidated $ 1,005 $ 1,927 Operating income increased from $1.0 billion in Q1 2017 to $1.9 billion in Q1 2018 . We believe that operating income is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales, partially offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(10) million for Q1 2018 . The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss by $70 million for Q1 2018 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(89) million for Q1 2018 . 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 22,440 $ 30,735 Fulfillment 4,697 7,792 Marketing 1,920 2,699 Technology and content 4,813 6,759 General and administrative 795 1,067 Other operating expense, net 44 63 Total operating expenses $ 34,709 $ 49,115 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 19 % 37 % Fulfillment 27 66 Marketing 34 41 Technology and content 37 40 General and administrative 60 34 Other operating expense, net (3 ) 44 Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 62.8 % 60.2 % Fulfillment 13.2 15.3 Marketing 5.4 5.3 Technology and content 13.5 13.2 General and administrative 2.2 2.1 Other operating expense, net 0.1 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery center and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery center and transportation costs, were $4.4 billion and $6.1 billion in Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as Technology and content as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as Technology and content. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction 26 Table of Contents costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, Associates program, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to payroll and related expenses, as well as increased spending on online marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our websites, curation and display of products and services made available on our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. During Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 , we capitalized $94 million (including $20 million of stock-based compensation) and $73 million (including $13 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $150 million and $114 million for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2018 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $44 million and $63 million for Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. 27 Table of Contents Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $39 million and $80 million during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $139 million and $330 million during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our capital and finance lease arrangements and long-term debt. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $48 million and $239 million during Q1 2017 and Q1 2018 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation. Income Taxes Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment. Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, accounting, and other areas, including European Union state aid rules, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. The 2017 Tax Act also enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualified property. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax accruals. However, we have reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. We recorded a provisional tax benefit for the impact of the 2017 Tax Act of approximately $789 million. This amount was primarily comprised of the remeasurement of federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax on the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of this one-time tax is not material. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. For 2018 , we estimate that our effective tax rate will be favorably affected by the impact of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research and development credit and adversely affected by losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We record valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $229 million , which included $122 million of net discrete tax benefits primarily attributable to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by the estimated impact of audit-related developments. Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $287 million , which included $368 million of net discrete tax benefits primarily attributable to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. 28 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives, which both are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,547 $ 18,194 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (7,417 ) (10,924 ) Free cash flow $ 10,130 $ 7,270 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (10,210 ) $ (26,265 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,608 ) $ 8,653 Free Cash Flow L e ss Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of capital lease obligations, and Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,547 $ 18,194 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (7,417 ) (10,924 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (3,891 ) (5,981 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (155 ) (235 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 6,084 $ 1,054 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (10,210 ) $ (26,265 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,608 ) $ 8,653 29 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow L e ss Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which is included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,547 $ 18,194 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (7,417 ) (10,924 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (6,717 ) (10,020 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (155 ) (235 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ 3,258 $ (2,985 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (10,210 ) $ (26,265 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,608 ) $ 8,653 All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 35,714 $ 492 $ 36,206 $ 51,042 $ (1,555 ) $ 49,487 Operating expenses 34,709 461 35,170 49,115 (1,584 ) 47,531 Operating income 1,005 31 1,036 1,927 29 1,956 ___________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 30 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on April 26, 2018 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 26, 2018 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. Second Quarter 2018 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $51.0 billion and $54.0 billion, or to grow between 34% and 42% compared with second quarter 2017. This guidance anticipates a favorable impact of approximately $1.2 billion or 320 basis points from foreign exchange rates. Operating income is expected to be between $1.1 billion and $1.9 billion, compared with $628 million in second quarter 2017. This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded. 31 Table of Contents