Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies, of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of March 31, 2014 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $75 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. 16 Table of Contents During the quarter, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2013 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate goodwill impairment. Changes in our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our March 31, 2014 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $29 million impact on our Q1 2014 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate as of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 was 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union, and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. In addition, we are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. 17 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 Operating activities $ (2,502 ) $ (2,372 ) $ 5,345 $ 4,245 Investing activities (924 ) (950 ) (4,250 ) (4,995 ) Financing activities (175 ) (157 ) (557 ) 3,106 Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $1.5 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to $177 million for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013 . See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to higher operating cash flows and decreased capital expenditures. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital 2 , the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our net income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $8.7 billion and $12.4 billion as of March 31, 2014 , and December 31, 2013 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $3.7 billion and $5.6 billion as of March 31, 2014 , and December 31, 2013 , and were primarily British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(2.5) billion and $(2.4) billion for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by changes in working capital. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(924) million and $(950) million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 , with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $1.1 billion and $670 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 , with the increase primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $128 million and $111 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $0 and $103 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(175) million and $(157) million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt were $361 million and $182 million in Q1 2014 and ______________________ (1) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. (2) Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. 18 Table of Contents Q1 2013 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $716 million and $340 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 , with the increase primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $65 million and $25 million in Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $121 million for Q1 2014 and $0 for Q1 2013 . We recorded a tax provision of $73 million in Q1 2014 and a tax benefit of $18 million in Q1 2013 . Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In 2013 , we also had accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property that reduced our U.S. taxable income as a result of U.S. legislation that expired in December 2013. As such, cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $38 million and $86 million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . As of December 31, 2013 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $275 million and we had approximately $295 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. The U.S. federal research and development credit expired in December 2013. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate lease agreements. As of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $336 million and $301 million . To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. This restriction would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from Cash and cash equivalents to Accounts receivable, net and other on our consolidated balance sheets. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $4.6 billion as of March 31, 2014 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle 3 . On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover 4 was 9 and 10 for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales include product and services sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital content where we are the seller of record. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and services sales and amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net Sales: North America $ 11,858 $ 9,391 International 7,883 6,679 Consolidated $ 19,741 $ 16,070 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 26 % 26 % International 18 16 Consolidated 23 22 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect of exchange rates: North America 26 % 26 % International 18 21 Consolidated 23 24 Net Sales Mix: North America 60 % 58 % International 40 42 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 23% in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $10 million and $(302) million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of exchange rates, see Effect of Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 26% in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers, and AWS. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Due to AWS pricing changes, we expect future AWS revenue to be difficult to predict. International sales increased 18% in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $24 million and $(301) million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales. 20 Table of Contents Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 849 $ 633 Shipping costs (1,829 ) (1,396 ) Net shipping cost $ (980 ) $ (763 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 34 % 37 % Shipping costs 31 24 Net shipping cost 28 14 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 4.3 % 4.0 % Shipping costs (9.3 ) (8.7 ) Net shipping cost (5.0 )% (4.7 )% ___________________ (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Includes amounts earned from Fulfillment by Amazon programs related to shipping services. We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing placement of fulfillment centers, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. 21 Table of Contents Net sales by similar products and services were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net Sales: North America Media $ 2,825 $ 2,513 Electronics and other general merchandise 7,829 6,128 Other (1) 1,204 750 Total North America $ 11,858 $ 9,391 International Media $ 2,642 $ 2,545 Electronics and other general merchandise 5,188 4,086 Other (1) 53 48 Total International $ 7,883 $ 6,679 Consolidated Media $ 5,467 $ 5,058 Electronics and other general merchandise 13,017 10,214 Other (1) 1,257 798 Total consolidated $ 19,741 $ 16,070 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 12 % 14 % Electronics and other general merchandise 28 28 Other 60 64 Total North America 26 26 International Media 4 % 1 % Electronics and other general merchandise 27 28 Other 13 14 Total International 18 16 Consolidated Media 8 % 7 % Electronics and other general merchandise 27 28 Other 58 59 Total consolidated 23 22 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 4 % 7 % Electronics and other general merchandise 26 32 Other 11 18 Total International 18 21 Consolidated Media 8 % 10 % Electronics and other general merchandise 27 30 Other 58 60 Total consolidated 23 24 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 28 % 31 % Electronics and other general merchandise 66 64 Other 6 5 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % ___________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as AWS sales, which are included in the North America segment, and advertising services and our co-branded credit card agreements, which are included in both segments. 22 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 14,055 $ $ 14,055 $ 11,801 $ $ 11,801 Fulfillment 2,317 (81 ) 2,236 1,796 (61 ) 1,735 Marketing 870 (27 ) 843 632 (16 ) 616 Technology and content 1,991 (169 ) 1,822 1,383 (120 ) 1,263 General and administrative 327 (44 ) 283 246 (32 ) 214 Other operating expense (income), net 35 35 31 31 Total operating expenses $ 19,595 $ (321 ) $ 19,274 $ 15,889 $ (229 ) $ 15,660 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 29 % 29 % 39 % 38 % Marketing 38 37 32 32 Technology and content 44 44 46 47 General and administrative 33 32 23 23 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 11.7 % 11.3 % 11.2 % 10.8 % Marketing 4.4 4.3 3.9 3.8 Technology and content 10.1 9.2 8.6 7.9 General and administrative 1.7 1.4 1.5 1.3 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, including Prime Instant Video, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product, digital content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, as well as from expansion of digital offerings. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Gross profit (in millions) $ 5,686 $ 4,269 Gross margin 28.8 % 26.6 % Gross margin increased in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to services sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 23 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content such as technology infrastructure, including AWS, expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, as well as in technology infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, and increased spending on technology infrastructure, including AWS. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in these areas by increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. During Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 , we capitalized $150 million (including $22 million of stock-based compensation) and $130 million (including $19 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $133 million and $101 million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. 24 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $321 million and $229 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . The increase is primarily due to an increase in the number of stock-based compensation awards granted to existing and new employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $35 million and $31 million for Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 19% to $146 million in Q1 2014 , from $181 million in Q1 2013 . Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $11 million and $10 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary components of our interest expense are related to our long-term debt and capital and financing lease arrangements. Interest expense was $42 million and $33 million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $5 million and $(77) million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign-currency gains (losses). Income Taxes Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment. Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. In 2014 , our effective tax rate will be significantly affected by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and the adverse effect of losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Our effective tax rate may also be adversely impacted by the amount of our pretax income relative to our income tax expense, nondeductible expenses, and changes in tax law such as the expiration of the U.S. federal research and development credit at the end of 2013. Income tax expense for Q1 2014 was $73 million . In Q1 2013 , we recognized an income tax benefit of $18 million , which included $46 million of discrete tax benefits primarily resulting from the retroactive reinstatement of the federal research and development credit that was enacted in January 2013. 25 Table of Contents Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $61 million and $(17) million during Q1 2014 and Q1 2013 . The primary component of this activity during Q1 2014 was our share of a gain recorded by LivingSocial related to the sale of its Korean operations. This gain was partially offset by operating losses incurred by LivingSocial during the period. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 19,731 $ 10 $ 19,741 $ 16,372 $ (302 ) $ 16,070 Operating expenses 19,603 (8 ) 19,595 16,179 (290 ) 15,889 Income from operations 128 18 146 193 (12 ) 181 ___________________ (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of Free cash flow, operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, which are included in cash flow from investing activities. We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flow from operations since purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and other leases accounted for as financing arrangements, or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 26 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 5,345 $ 4,245 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,854 ) (4,068 ) Free cash flow $ 1,491 $ 177 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (4,250 ) $ (4,995 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (557 ) $ 3,106 Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expenses is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the Fulfillment, Marketing, Technology and content, and General and administrative line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on April 24, 2014 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 24, 2014 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. Second Quarter 2014 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $18.1 billion and $19.8 billion , or to grow between 15% and 26% compared with second quarter 2013 . Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(455) million and $(55) million , compared to $79 million in second quarter 2013 . This guidance includes approximately $455 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates.