Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies, of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at March 31, 2012 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $43 million. 15 Table of Contents Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the quarter, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2011, would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our March 31, 2012, closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $18 million impact on our Q1 2012 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate at March 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, was 28% for both periods. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax positions and determining our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made, as well as prior and subsequent periods. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority of the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies Recent Accounting Pronouncements. 16 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in millions) (in millions) Operating activities $ (2,438 ) $ (1,586 ) $ 3,051 $ 3,033 Investing activities 450 390 (1,870 ) (2,428 ) Financing activities (1,005 ) 24 (1,510 ) 92 Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $1.15 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012, compared to $1.90 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2011, a decrease of 39%. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the comparable prior year period was primarily due to increased capital expenditures, changes in working capital 2 , , and less net income, partially offset by decreases in noncash expenses, increases in deferred revenue, and increases in sales of gift certificates to customers. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows; accordingly, as such tax benefits decline, a greater amount of cash is classified as operating cash inflow. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our federal taxable income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $5.7 billion and $9.6 billion at March 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $3.0 billion and $4.1 billion at March 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(2.4) billion and $(1.6) billion for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. Changes to our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily by changes in operating income and changes to the components of working capital, including changes to receivable and payable days and inventory turns, as well as changes to non-cash items such as excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. (1) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. (2) Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. 17 Table of Contents Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies, and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $450 million and $390 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, increased capital expenditures, and increases in cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $386 million and $298 million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $75 million and $52 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $50 million and $139 million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(1.0) billion and $24 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Cash outflows from financing activities result from common stock repurchases, payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt were $153 million and $111 million in Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. In Q1 2012, we repurchased $960 million of our common stock under the $2 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors (see Item 2 of Part II Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds). Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $68 million and $89 million in Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows (outflows) from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $40 and $46 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. We recorded net tax provisions of $43 million and $89 million in Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $19 million and $7 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $384 million and we had approximately $273 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Once we utilize federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock, which replaces the prior February 2008 repurchase authorization. We repurchased 1.5 million shares of common stock for $277 million in 2011 and 5.3 million shares of common stock for $960 million in Q1 2012. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $3 billion at March 31, 2012. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancelable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. Additionally, in March 2012, we signed an agreement to acquire Kiva Systems, Inc., for approximately $775 million in cash, which we expect to satisfy with cash on hand. We expect the acquisition to close in Q2 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and closing conditions. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle 3 . On average, our high inventory velocity means we collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover 4 was 10 and 12 for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including category expansion and changes in our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. (3) The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. 18 Table of Contents We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Results of Operations We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales include product and services sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital content where we are the seller of record. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities. Net sales information is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (in millions) Net Sales: North America $ 7,427 $ 5,465 International 5,758 4,392 Consolidated $ 13,185 $ 9,857 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 36 % 45 % International 31 31 Consolidated 34 38 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect of exchange rates: North America 36 % 45 % International 32 27 Consolidated 34 36 Net Sales Mix: North America 56 % 55 % International 44 45 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 34% in Q1 2012. Changes in currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(56) million for Q1 2012 and $144 million for Q1 2011. For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of exchange rates, see Effect of Exchange Rates below. North America sales grew 36% in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. International sales grew 31% in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(55) million for Q1 2012 and $141 million for Q1 2011. We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales. 19 Table of Contents Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (in millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 461 $ 330 Outbound shipping costs (1,129 ) (786 ) Net shipping cost $ (668 ) $ (456 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 40 % 33 % Outbound shipping costs 44 52 Net shipping cost 47 69 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 3.5 % 3.3 % Outbound shipping costs (8.6 ) (7.9 ) Net shipping cost (5.1 )% (4.6 )% (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes the portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Shipping revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2012, includes amounts earned from Fulfillment By Amazon programs related to shipping services. We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate; to the extent our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category; to the extent we reduce shipping rates; to the extent we use more expensive shipping methods; and to the extent we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. 20 Table of Contents Net sales by similar products and services were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (in millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ 2,197 $ 1,885 Electronics and other general merchandise 4,772 3,303 Other (1) 458 277 Total North America $ 7,427 $ 5,465 International Media $ 2,513 $ 2,073 Electronics and other general merchandise 3,203 2,285 Other (1) 42 34 Total International $ 5,758 $ 4,392 Consolidated Media $ 4,710 $ 3,958 Electronics and other general merchandise 7,975 5,588 Other (1) 500 311 Total consolidated $ 13,185 $ 9,857 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 17 % 18 % Electronics and other general merchandise 44 63 Other 66 74 Total North America 36 45 International Media 21 % 13 % Electronics and other general merchandise 40 54 Other 24 15 Total International 31 31 Consolidated Media 19 % 15 % Electronics and other general merchandise 43 59 Other 61 65 Total consolidated 34 38 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 22 % 9 % Electronics and other general merchandise 42 49 Other 26 12 Total International 32 27 Consolidated Media 19 % 13 % Electronics and other general merchandise 43 57 Other 61 64 Total consolidated 34 36 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 36 % 40 % Electronics and other general merchandise 60 57 Other 4 3 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % (1) Includes non-retail activities, such as AWS, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, our co-branded credit card agreements, and other seller sites. 21 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 10,027 $ $ 10,027 $ 7,608 $ $ 7,608 Fulfillment 1,295 (37 ) 1,258 855 (24 ) 831 Marketing 480 (12 ) 468 327 (7 ) 320 Technology and content 945 (85 ) 860 579 (61 ) 518 General and administrative 200 (26 ) 174 133 (18 ) 115 Other operating expense (income), net 46 46 33 33 Total operating expenses $ 12,993 $ (160 ) $ 12,833 $ 9,535 $ (110 ) $ 9,425 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 51 % 52 % 57 % 57 % Marketing 47 47 63 63 Technology and content 63 66 58 62 General and administrative 49 50 37 44 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 9.8 % 9.5 % 8.7 % 8.4 % Marketing 3.6 3.6 3.3 3.2 Technology and content 7.2 6.5 5.9 5.3 General and administrative 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.2 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, including Prime Instant Video, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year period is primarily due to increased product, digital content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Gross profit (in millions) $ 3,158 $ 2,249 Gross margin 24.0 % 22.8 % Gross margin increased in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year primarily due to service sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 22 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2012, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2012, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as our Associates program and sponsored search programs, and payroll and related expenses. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, digital initiatives, AWS, and expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, as well as technology infrastructure, so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year period is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our digital initiatives, and increased spending on technology infrastructure. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in these areas by adding technology infrastructure and increasing payroll and related expenses. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. During Q1 2012 and Q1 2011, we capitalized $88 million (including $13 million of stock-based compensation) and $62 million (including $10 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $71 million and $52 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure and other technology costs used to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2012 compared to the comparable prior year period is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. 23 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at fair value on date of grant and recognized using an accelerated method over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including employee class, the economic environment, and historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. Stock-based compensation was $160 million and $110 million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. The increase is primarily due to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income) was $46 million and $33 million for Q1 2012 and Q1 2011 and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 40% to $192 million in Q1 2012, from $322 million in Q1 2011. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $12 million and $15 million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary component of our interest expense is related to our capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements. Interest expense was $21 million and $12 million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(99) million and $(18) million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. The primary component of other income (expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gains (losses) on intercompany balances. The decrease is primarily due to the weakening of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar and the Euro during the period. Income Taxes Our tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment. In 2012, our effective tax rate will reflect the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions that primarily relate to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg, offset by the adverse effect of losses incurred in other foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit and have therefore recorded a valuation allowance against the related deferred tax asset. Such losses reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate may also be adversely impacted by the amount of our pre-tax income relative to our income tax expense, nondeductible expenses, and changes in tax law such as the expiration of the US federal research and development credit at the end of 2011. Taking these items into account, we estimate our annual effective tax rate to be higher than both the 35% US federal statutory rate and our 2011 effective tax rate. As compared to our current estimate of annual 2012 pre-tax income, we generated a disproportionate amount of losses during Q1 2012 in jurisdictions for which no tax benefit is recognized. Accordingly, our 51% Q1 2012 effective tax rate is higher than both our current estimated annual effective rate and our 2011 effective tax rate. 24 Table of Contents EquityMethod Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equitymethod investment activity, net of tax, was $89 and $(17) million during Q1 2012 and Q1 2011. The increase in equity-method investment activity in Q1 2012 compared to Q1 2011 is primarily due to $53 million of equity-method income and gains of $36 million as a result of reductions in our equity ownership, through dilution, in LivingSocial. The equity-method income is primarily due to the recognition of non-operating, non-cash gains on previously held equity positions in companies LivingSocial acquired during the quarter. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 13,241 $ (56 ) $ 13,185 $ 9,713 $ 144 $ 9,857 Operating expenses 13,045 (52 ) 12,993 9,398 137 9,535 Income from operations 196 (4 ) 192 315 7 322 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of Free cash flow, operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development. We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 25 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,051 $ 3,033 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (1,899 ) (1,138 ) Free cash flow $ 1,152 $ 1,895 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,870 ) $ (2,428 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,510 ) $ 92 Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the Fulfillment, Technology and content, Marketing, and General and administrative line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on April 26, 2012, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 26, 2012, and exclude financial results of the Kiva Systems, Inc. acquisition which we expect to close in second quarter 2012. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below. Second Quarter 2012 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $11.9 billion and $13.3 billion, or to grow between 20% and 34% compared with second quarter 2011. Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(260) million and $40 million, or between 229% decline and 80% decline compared with second quarter 2011. This guidance includes approximately $260 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors.