Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of OperationsSupplemental Information for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell Kindle devices. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, including through membership in Amazon Prime, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I, Properties. Sellers We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Enterprises We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services (AWS), which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. 2 Table of Contents Content Creators We serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, an online platform that lets independent authors and publishers choose a 70% royalty option and make their books available in the Kindle Store. Amazons own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing, offers authors another outlet to publish their books. We also serve authors, musicians, filmmakers and other content creators through CreateSpace, which provides on-demand publishing and manufacturing for independent content creators, publishers, film studios, and music labels. Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: (1) physical-world retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers of our products; (2) other online e-commerce and mobile e-commerce sites, including sites that sell or distribute digital content; (3) a number of indirect competitors, including media companies, web portals, comparison shopping websites, and web search engines, either directly or in collaboration with other retailers; (4) companies that provide e-commerce services, including website development, fulfillment, and customer service; (5) companies that provide infrastructure web services or other information storage or computing services or products; and (6) companies that design, manufacture, market, or sell digital media devices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability of our services and tools. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. We recognized 36%, 38%, and 39% of our annual revenue during the fourth quarter of 2011, 2010, and 2009. Employees We employed approximately 56,200 full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2011. However, employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, we utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce, particularly on a seasonal basis. Although we have works councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our employees are not represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. 3 Table of Contents Available Information Our investor relations website is www.amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of January 19, 2012: Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 48 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Jeffrey M. Blackburn 42 Senior Vice President, Business Development Sebastian J. Gunningham 49 Senior Vice President, Seller Services Andrew R. Jassy 44 Senior Vice President, Web Services Steven Kessel 46 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media Marc A. Onetto 61 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations Diego Piacentini 51 Senior Vice President, International Retail Shelley L. Reynolds 47 Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Thomas J. Szkutak 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer H. Brian Valentine 52 Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform Jeffrey A. Wilke 45 Senior Vice President, North America Retail L. Michelle Wilson 48 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey P. Bezos. Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as President of the Company from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to the present. Jeffrey M. Blackburn. Mr. Blackburn has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April 2006. Sebastian J. Gunningham. Mr. Gunningham has served as Senior Vice President, Seller Services, since joining Amazon.com in March 2007. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Gunningham was President of First Data Utilities from August 2006 to February 2007. Andrew R. Jassy. Mr. Jassy has served as Senior Vice President, Web Services, since April 2006. Steven Kessel. Mr. Kessel has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media, since April 2006. Marc A. Onetto. Mr. Onetto has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, since joining Amazon.com in December 2006. Diego Piacentini. Mr. Piacentini has served as Senior Vice President, International Retail, since January 2007. Shelley L. Reynolds. Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, she was Vice President, Finance and Controller. 4 Table of Contents Thomas J. Szkutak. Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon.com in October 2002. H. Brian Valentine. Mr. Valentine has served as Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform, since joining Amazon.com in September 2006. Jeffrey A. Wilke. Mr. Wilke has served as Senior Vice President, North America Retail, since January 2007. L. Michelle Wilson. Ms. Wilson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since July 2003. Board of Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 48 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Tom A. Alberg 71 Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown 71 Visiting Scholar and Advisor to the Provost, University of Southern California William B. Gordon 61 Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Blake G. Krikorian 44 Founder and Chief Executive Officer, id8 Group Productions, Inc. Alain Moni 61 President and Chief Executive Officer, Ingram Micro Inc. Jonathan J. Rubinstein 55 Former Chairman and CEO, Palm, Inc. Thomas O. Ryder 67 Retired, Former Chairman, Readers Digest Association, Inc. Patricia Q. Stonesifer 55 Vice Chair, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. We Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including retail, e-commerce services, digital content and digital media devices, and web services. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand into our market segments. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources We are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, 5 Table of Contents systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Business, Legal, Financial and Competitive Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Growth Rate We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers demands; our ability to retain and expand our network of sellers; our ability to offer products on favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; the introduction of competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, or improvements; changes in usage or adoption rates of the Internet, e-commerce, digital media devices and web services, including in non-U.S. markets; timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and infrastructure; the success of our geographic, service, and product line expansions; the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims; variations in the mix of products and services we sell; variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns; the extent to which we offer free shipping, continue to reduce product prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits to our customers; the extent to which we invest in technology and content, fulfillment and other expense categories; increases in the prices of fuel and gasoline, as well as increases in the prices of other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; the extent to which our equity method investees record significant operating and non-operating items; 6 Table of Contents the extent to which operators of the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees to grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access to our online services; our ability to collect amounts owed to us when they become due; the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions and similar events; and terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: local economic and political conditions; government regulation of e-commerce, other online services and electronic devices and restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization and restrictions on foreign ownership; restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports and electronic devices; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; lower levels of use of the Internet; lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers councils and labor unions; laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As the international e-commerce channel grows, competition will intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. 7 Table of Contents The Peoples Republic of China (PRC) regulates Amazons and its affiliates businesses and operations in the PRC through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) foreign investment in the Internet, IT infrastructure, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) Internet content and (iii) the sale of media and other products. For example, in order to meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, www.amazon.cn is operated by PRC companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly or partially, by PRC nationals. Although we believe these structures comply with existing PRC laws, they involve unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that the PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. If our Chinese business interests were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or if interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked or be forced to shut down entirely. In addition, the Chinese businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to enforce contractual relationships with respect to management and control of such businesses. If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed If we do not adequately predict customer demand or otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment centers successfully, it could result in excess or insufficient inventory or fulfillment capacity, result in increased costs, impairment charges, or both, or harm our business in other ways. A failure to optimize inventory will increase our net shipping cost by requiring long-zone or partial shipments. Orders from several of our websites are fulfilled primarily from a single location, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. As we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. If the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively. We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers orders, and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality and future procurement of their services. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to occur during our fourth quarter. If we do not stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profitability. We may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we 8 Table of Contents sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. We also face risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment center optimization and inventory. We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable at December 31. Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships We provide e-commerce services to other businesses through our seller programs and other commercial agreements, strategic alliances and business relationships. Under these agreements, we provide technology, fulfillment and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our websites and power their websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments by us, which may limit the agreements we are able to enter into and our ability to integrate and deliver services under them. If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing of third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties to perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not be viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is partially dependent on the volume of the other companys sales. Therefore, if the other companys offering is not successful, the compensation we receive may be lower than expected or the agreement may be terminated. Moreover, we may not be able to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. We also may be subject to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining or developing these services. As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We may in the future enter into amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future e-commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; impairment of other relationships; variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such as: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; problems retaining key personnel; 9 Table of Contents additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested; the potential impairment of tangible assets, such as inventory, and intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the company we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; the difficulty of integrating a new companys accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; for investments in which an investees financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, the dependence on the investees accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes; the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. We Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. We also hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities primarily in Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. If the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. We do not have key person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Breaches As a result of our services being web-based and the fact that we process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including personal information, for our customers, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability for us and otherwise harm our business. Although we 10 Table of Contents have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we rely on third party technology and systems in certain aspects of our businesses, including for encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related losses. Any of these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. We Face Significant Inventory Risk In addition to risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment center and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that we use is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service. We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as: changes in interest rates; conditions or trends in the Internet and the e-commerce industry; quarterly variations in operating results; fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular; changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce or technology companies; and transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. Government Regulation Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce, and electronic devices. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts and other 12 Table of Contents communications, consumer protection, web services, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet, e-commerce, digital content and web services. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer-to-consumer online businesses, including certain aspects of our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. We Do Not Collect Sales or Consumption Taxes in Some Jurisdictions U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales taxes with respect to remote sales. However, an increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf. We support a Federal law that would require sales tax collection under a nationwide system. More than half of our revenue is already earned in jurisdictions where we collect sales tax or its equivalent. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. We Could be Subject to Additional Income Tax Liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks We have significant suppliers, including licensors, that are important to our sourcing, services, manufacturing and any related ongoing servicing of merchandise and content. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current suppliers were to stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural disasters or for other reasons, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. We May be Subject to Risks Related to Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, such contracts may provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause. 13 Table of Contents We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or environmental or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Are Subject to Payments-Related Risks We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift certificates, direct debit from a customers bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We also offer co-branded credit card programs that represent a significant component of our services revenue. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we qualify as a money services business in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf. In these jurisdictions, we may be subject to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding, the handling of transferred funds and consumer disclosures. We are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our payments services business. We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, governmental agencies could require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under our seller programs, we may be unable to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, we reimburse buyers for payments up to certain limits in these situations, and as our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. We also may be unable to prevent sellers on our sites or through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating the proprietary rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2011, we operated the following facilities: Description of Use Square Footage (1) Operating Segments Lease Expirations (1) (in thousands) Office lease 3,416 North America From 2012 through 2026 Office lease 837 International From 2012 through 2021 Sub-total 4,253 Fulfillment and other 26,364 North America From 2012 through 2026 Fulfillment and other 17,690 International From 2012 through 2025 Sub-total 44,054 Total 48,307 (1) Represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. We lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Additionally, we lease corporate office, fulfillment and warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally in North America, Europe, and Asia. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 7Commitments and ContingenciesLegal Proceedings and Other Contingencies. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol AMZN. The following table sets forth the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December 31, 2010 First Quarter $ 138.19 $ 113.82 Second Quarter 151.09 106.01 Third Quarter 161.78 105.80 Fourth Quarter 185.65 151.40 Year ended December 31, 2011 First Quarter $ 191.60 $ 160.59 Second Quarter 206.39 175.37 Third Quarter 244.00 177.10 Fourth Quarter 246.71 166.97 Holders As of January 19, 2012, there were 3,327 shareholders of record of our common stock, although there are a much larger number of beneficial owners. Dividends We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On January 28, 2010, we publicly announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of the Companys common stock with no fixed expiration. We may make these purchases in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and in discretionary purchases or pursuant to pre-established purchase plans. The table below sets forth information regarding our purchases of our common stock during Q4 2011 (in millions, except Average Price Paid Per Share data): Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Repurchased Under the Program October 1October 31, 2011 $ $ 2,000 November 1November 30, 2011 1.5 189.22 1.5 1,723 December 1December 31, 2011 1,723 Total 1.5 1.5 16 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and the information contained in Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 Income from operations 862 1,406 1,129 842 655 Net income 631 1,152 902 645 476 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.39 $ 2.58 $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.37 $ 2.53 $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 453 447 433 423 413 Diluted 461 456 442 432 424 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 $ 1,364 $ 1,181 Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 25,278 $ 18,797 $ 13,813 $ 8,314 $ 6,485 Total long-term obligations 2,625 1,561 1,192 896 1,574 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 1Description of Business and Accounting Policies. (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures. 17 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers . The products offered on our consumer-facing websites primarily include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell Kindle devices. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of items sold by other sellers as services sales. We also offer other services such as AWS, fulfillment, publishing, digital content subscriptions, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, such as online advertising, and co-branded credit cards. Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 per share. Free cash flow is driven primarily by increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital 2 and capital expenditures. Increases in operating income primarily result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, offset by investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. We also seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders interests. We utilize restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation because we believe they align the interests of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder dilution, we include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 468 million and 465 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 1 Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See Results of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures below. 2 Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. 18 Table of Contents We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and a portion of our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary to run our technology infrastructure and AWS; to build, enhance, and add features to our websites, our Kindle devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally increase depending on the timing of capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts available to us from suppliers, and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean culture. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle 3 . On average our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover 4 was 10, 11, and 12 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days 5 were 74, 72, and 68 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. We expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by other sellers, the mix of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment terms with suppliers. We expect spending in technology and content will increase over time as we add computer scientists, software engineers, and merchandising employees. We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content, including seller platforms, digital initiatives, and expansion of new and existing physical and digital product categories, as well as in technology infrastructure to enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiencies, and support AWS. We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, the improved consumer experience of the Internet outside of the workplace through lower-cost broadband service to the home, and the advances of wireless connectivity, will continue to improve the consumer experience on the Internet and increase its ubiquity in peoples lives. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and devices. We are also investing in AWS, which provides technology services that give developers and enterprises of all sizes access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales, and operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales, and operating expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long term. We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of currency changes. In addition, the remeasurement of our intercompany balances can result in significant gains and charges associated with the effect of movements in currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. 3 The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 4 Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing-twelve-month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter-ends. 5 Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to current quarter cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the current quarter. 19 Table of Contents For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 1Description of Business and Accounting Policies. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (GAAP) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 1Description of Business and Accounting Policies. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $50 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2011 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine 20 Table of Contents whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2011, closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $24 million impact on our 2011 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were 28% and 30%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost is expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax positions and determining our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made, as well as prior and subsequent periods. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority of the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 1Description of Business and Accounting PoliciesRecent Accounting Pronouncements. 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 Investing activities (1,930 ) (3,360 ) (2,337 ) Financing activities (482 ) 181 (280 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $2.09 billion for 2011, compared to $2.52 billion and $2.92 billion for 2010 and 2009. See Results of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow in 2011 was primarily due to increased capital expenditures and changes in working capital, partially offset by increases in sales of gift certificates to our customers, decreased tax benefits on excess stock-based compensation deductions, and increases in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. The decrease in free cash flow in 2010 was primarily due to increased capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and utilization of excess stock-based compensation deductions, partially offset by increases in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows; accordingly, as such tax benefits decline, a greater amount of cash is classified as operating cash inflow. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our federal taxable income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $9.6 billion, $8.8 billion, and $6.4 billion, at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $4.1 billion, $3.4 billion, and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.9 billion, $3.5 billion, and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. Changes to our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily by changes in operating income and changes to the components of working capital, including changes to receivable and payable days and inventory turns, as well as changes to non-cash items such as excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Cash used in investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $(1.9) billion, $(3.4) billion, and $(2.3) billion in 2011, 2010, and 2009, with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures and changes in cash paid for acquisitions, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments. Capital expenditures were $1.8 billion, $979 million, and $373 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments in 22 Table of Contents support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $256 million, $176 million, and $146 million for internal-use software and website development during 2011, 2010, and 2009. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and investment activity of $705 million, $352 million, and $40 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(482) million, $181 million, and $(280) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Cash outflows from financing activities result from payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, repurchases of common stock, and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt, were $444 million, $221 million, and $472 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. We repurchased 1.5 million shares of common stock for $277 million in 2011 under the $2 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2010. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long term-debt and proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $177 million, $143 million, and $87 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $62 million, $259 million, and $105 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. In 2011, 2010, and 2009 we recorded net tax provisions of $291 million, $352 million, and $253 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. At December 31, 2011, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries were $3.6 billion, which include undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of $2.0 billion. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate them. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $33 million, $75 million, and $48 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $384 million. We also have approximately $273 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Once we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 7Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $3 billion at December 31, 2011. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancelable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory turnover means we collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 10, 11, and 12 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including category expansion and changes in our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further 23 Table of Contents strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Results of Operations We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales include product and services sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital content where we are the seller of record. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities. Net sales information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Net Sales: North America $ 26,705 $ 18,707 $ 12,828 International 21,372 15,497 11,681 Consolidated $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 43 % 46 % 25 % International 38 33 31 Consolidated 41 40 28 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect of exchange rates: North America 43 % 46 % 26 % International 31 34 33 Consolidated 37 40 29 Net Sales Mix: North America 56 % 55 % 52 % International 44 45 48 Consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % Sales increased 41%, 40%, and 28% in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Changes in currency exchange rates positively (negatively) affected net sales by $1.1 billion, $(86) million, and $(182) million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of exchange rates, see Effect of Exchange Rates below. The North America sales growth rate was 43%, 46%, and 25% in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by a larger base of sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, North America sales growth reflects increased AWS activity. 24 Table of Contents The International sales growth rate was 38%, 33%, and 31% in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by a larger base of sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates positively (negatively) affected International net sales by $1.1 billion, $(107) million, and $(174) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2) $ 1,552 $ 1,193 $ 924 Outbound shipping costs (3,989 ) (2,579 ) (1,773 ) Net shipping cost $ (2,437 ) $ (1,386 ) $ (849 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 30 % 29 % 11 % Outbound shipping costs 55 45 21 Net shipping cost 76 63 35 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 3.2 % 3.5 % 3.8 % Outbound shipping costs (8.3 ) (7.5 ) (7.2 ) Net shipping cost (5.1 )% (4.0 )% (3.4 )% (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate; to the extent our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category; to the extent we reduce shipping rates; to the extent we use more expensive shipping methods; and to the extent we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. 25 Table of Contents Net sales by similar products and services were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ 7,959 $ 6,881 $ 5,964 Electronics and other general merchandise 17,315 10,998 6,314 Other (1) 1,431 828 550 Total North America $ 26,705 $ 18,707 $ 12,828 International Media $ 9,820 $ 8,007 $ 6,810 Electronics and other general merchandise 11,397 7,365 4,768 Other (1) 155 125 103 Total International $ 21,372 $ 15,497 $ 11,681 Consolidated Media $ 17,779 $ 14,888 $ 12,774 Electronics and other general merchandise 28,712 18,363 11,082 Other (1) 1,586 953 653 Total consolidated $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 16 % 15 % 11 % Electronics and other general merchandise 57 74 43 Other 73 50 23 Total North America 43 46 25 International Media 23 % 18 % 19 % Electronics and other general merchandise 55 54 53 Other 24 22 9 Total International 38 33 31 Consolidated Media 19 % 17 % 15 % Electronics and other general merchandise 56 66 47 Other 66 46 20 Total consolidated 41 40 28 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 16 % 18 % 20 % Electronics and other general merchandise 47 57 56 Other 18 24 19 Total International 31 34 33 Consolidated Media 16 % 16 % 16 % Electronics and other general merchandise 53 67 48 Other 66 46 22 Total consolidated 37 40 29 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 37 % 43 % 52 % Electronics and other general merchandise 60 54 45 Other 3 3 3 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Includes non-retail activities, such as AWS, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, other seller sites, and our co-branded credit card agreements. 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 37,288 $ $ 37,288 $ 26,561 $ $ 26,561 $ 18,978 $ $ 18,978 Fulfillment 4,576 (133 ) 4,443 2,898 (90 ) 2,808 2,052 (79 ) 1,973 Marketing 1,630 (39 ) 1,591 1,029 (27 ) 1,002 680 (20 ) 660 Technology and content 2,909 (292 ) 2,617 1,734 (223 ) 1,511 1,240 (182 ) 1,058 General and administrative 658 (93 ) 565 470 (84 ) 386 328 (60 ) 268 Other operating expense (income), net 154 154 106 106 102 102 Total operating expenses $ 47,215 $ (557 ) $ 46,658 $ 32,798 $ (424 ) $ 32,374 $ 23,380 $ (341 ) $ 23,039 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 58 % 58 % 41 % 42 % 24 % 24 % Marketing 58 59 51 52 41 41 Technology and content 68 73 40 43 20 20 General and administrative 40 46 44 45 17 17 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 9.5 % 9.2 % 8.5 % 8.2 % 8.4 % 8.1 % Marketing 3.4 3.3 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.7 Technology and content 6.1 5.4 5.1 4.4 5.1 4.3 General and administrative 1.4 1.2 1.4 1.1 1.3 1.1 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Item 8 of Part I, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 1Description of Business and Accounting PoliciesStock-Based Compensation. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increased product, digital content, including Prime Instant Video, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Gross profit (in millions) $ 10,789 $ 7,643 $ 5,531 Gross margin 22.4 % 22.3 % 22.6 % Gross margin for 2011 remained relatively consistent with the prior year periods. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 27 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and in 2011 and 2010 television and print advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, digital initiatives, AWS and expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, as well as technology infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increased spending on technology infrastructure and increases in payroll and related expenses. Spending in technology and content significantly increased in 2011, and we expect this trend to continue over time as we invest in these areas by adding technology infrastructure and increasing payroll and related expenses. See Overview for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. For 2011, 2010, and 2009, we capitalized $307 million (including $51 million of stock-based compensation), $213 million (including $38 million of stock-based compensation), and $187 million (including $35 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of 28 Table of Contents previously capitalized amounts was $236 million, $184 million, and $172 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure and other technology costs used to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $557 million, $424 million, and $341 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. The increase in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $154 million, $106 million, and $102 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, the amounts primarily related to amortization of intangible assets and additionally, in 2009, a $51 million legal settlement. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 39% in 2011 and increased 25% and 34% in 2010 and 2009. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $61 million, $51 million, and $37 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary component of our interest expense is related to our capital and financing leases and our long-term debt. Interest expense was $65 million, $39 million, and $34 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our long-term liabilities were $2.6 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 6Long-Term Liabilities. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $76 million, $79 million, and $29 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. The primary component of other income (expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gains on intercompany balances. Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $291 million, $352 million, and $253 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The effective tax rate in 2011, 2010, and 2009 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in 29 Table of Contents the U.S. Earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. primarily relate to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. The favorable effective tax rate impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions is offset by other items, principally losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we may not able to realize a related tax benefit. Depending upon the jurisdictional mix and amount of our income in 2012, the losses for which we may not receive a tax benefit in 2012 could result in an effective tax rate that is higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates, business acquisitions and investments, foreign exchange rates, and expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2011, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $384 million. We also have approximately $273 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Once we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. As a result of U.S. legislation enacted in December 2010, we accelerated our depreciation deductions for qualifying property acquired in 2010 and 2011. EquityMethod Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equitymethod investment gains (losses), net of tax, were $(12) million, $7 million, and $(6) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The increase in equity-method investment activity in 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily due to $175 million of equity-method losses, partially offset by gains of $163 million as a result of reductions in our equity ownership, through dilution, and a recovery on the sale of an equity position. The increase in equity-method investment activity in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash gain on a previously held equity position in a company that was acquired in 2010. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 46,985 $ 1,092 $ 48,077 $ 34,290 $ (86 ) $ 34,204 $ 24,691 $ (182 ) $ 24,509 Operating expenses 46,176 1,039 47,215 32,856 (58 ) 32,798 23,522 (142 ) 23,380 Income from operations 809 53 862 1,434 (28 ) 1,406 1,170 (41 ) 1,129 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of Free cash flow, operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statement of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. 30 Table of Contents Free cash flow, which we reconcile to Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development. We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, Net cash provided by operating activities for 2011, 2010, and 2009 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) Free cash flow $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,930 ) $ (3,360 ) $ (2,337 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (482 ) $ 181 $ (280 ) Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the Fulfillment, Technology and content, Marketing, and General and administrative line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 31, 2012 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of January 31, 2012. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below. First Quarter 2012 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $12.0 billion and $13.4 billion, or to grow between 22% and 36% compared with first quarter 2011. 31 Table of Contents Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(200) million and $100 million, or between 162% decline and 69% decline compared with first quarter 2011. This guidance includes approximately $200 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors.