Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic amplify many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies and Supplemental Disclosures, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of March 31, 2021, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $275 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to 19 Table of Contents change due to economic, political, and other conditions, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 2020 2021 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,064 $ 4,213 $ 39,732 $ 67,213 Investing activities (8,894) (8,666) (25,053) (59,383) Financing activities (2,591) (3,476) (10,280) (1,989) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $84.4 billion and $73.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $23.5 billion and $19.8 billion as of December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $3.1 billion and $4.2 billion for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses, and changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(8.9) billion and $(8.7) billion for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021, with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $5.4 billion and $11.2 billion during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021, which primarily reflect investments in additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), which investments we expect to continue over time. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $91 million and $630 million during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(2.6) billion and $(3.5) billion for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term debt of $693 million and $2.0 billion for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from payments of short-term debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $3.3 billion and $5.5 billion in Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021, reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement, $725 million of borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program, and $429 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit Facility as of March 31, 2021. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 5 Debt for additional information. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $305 million and $801 million for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commissions October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commissions decision, of approximately 250 million, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. 21 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $257 million and $323 million. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 4 Commitments and Contingencies and Financial Statements Note 5 Debt for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $32.6 billion as of March 31, 2021. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain finance and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting global disruptions have caused significant market volatility. These disruptions can contribute to defaults in our accounts receivable, affect asset valuations resulting in impairment charges, and affect the availability of lease and financing credit as well as other segments of the credit markets. We have utilized a range of financing methods to fund our operations and capital expenditures and expect to continue to maintain financing flexibility in the current market conditions. However, due to the rapidly evolving global situation, it is not possible to predict whether unanticipated consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 8 Segment Information. Effects of COVID-19 As reflected in the discussion below, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken in response to it had varying effects on our Q1 2021 results of operations. Higher net sales in the North America and International segments reflect increased demand, particularly as people are staying at home, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. Other effects in the North America and International segments include increased fulfillment costs and cost of sales as a percentage of net sales, primarily due to the impact of lower productivity and costs to maintain safe workplaces. We incurred approximately $2.0 billion in COVID-19 related costs in Q1 2021. We will continue to prioritize employee and customer safety and comply with evolving federal, state, and local standards as well as to implement standards or processes that we determine to be in the best interests of our employees, customers, and communities. We expect the effects of fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints, elevated collection risk in our accounts receivable, and the negative impact on fulfillment costs and cost of sales as a percentage of net sales to continue into all or portions of Q2 2021. However, it is not possible to determine the duration and scope of the pandemic, including any recurrence, the actions taken in response to the pandemic, the scale and rate of economic recovery from the pandemic, any ongoing effects on consumer demand and spending patterns, or other impacts of the pandemic, and whether these or other currently unanticipated consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our results of operations. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net Sales: North America $ 46,127 $ 64,366 International 19,106 30,649 AWS 10,219 13,503 Consolidated $ 75,452 $ 108,518 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 29 % 40 % International 18 60 AWS 33 32 Consolidated 26 44 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 29 % 39 % International 20 50 AWS 33 32 Consolidated 27 41 Net sales mix: North America 61 % 59 % International 25 28 AWS 14 13 Consolidated 100 % 100 % 23 Table of Contents Sales increased 44% in Q1 2021 compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $2.1 billion for Q1 2021. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 40% in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. International sales increased 60% in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $1.9 billion for Q1 2021. AWS sales increased 32% in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 1,312 $ 3,450 International (398) 1,252 AWS 3,075 4,163 Consolidated $ 3,989 $ 8,865 Operating income increased from $4.0 billion in Q1 2020 to $8.9 billion in Q1 2021. We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product catego ries and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2021 compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs due in part to COVID-19. We expect North America operating income to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q2 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $8 million for Q1 2021. The International operating income in Q1 2021 as compared to the operating loss in the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales, and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased shipp ing and fulfillment costs due in part to COVID-19. We expect International operating income to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q2 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $270 million for Q1 2021. The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2021 compared to the comparable prior year period is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by increased spending on technology infrastructure, payroll and related expenses, and software licensing expenses, all of which were primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth, and reduced prices for our customers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(171) million for Q1 2021. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 44,257 $ 62,403 Fulfillment 11,531 16,530 Technology and content 9,325 12,488 Marketing 4,828 6,207 General and administrative 1,452 1,987 Other operating expense (income), net 70 38 Total operating expenses $ 71,463 $ 99,653 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 30 % 41 % Fulfillment 34 43 Technology and content 18 34 Marketing 32 29 General and administrative 24 37 Other operating expense (income), net 1,531 (46) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 58.7 % 57.5 % Fulfillment 15.3 15.2 Technology and content 12.4 11.5 Marketing 6.4 5.7 General and administrative 1.9 1.8 Other operating expense (income), net Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2021 compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. We expect cost of sales as a percentage of net sales to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q2 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $10.9 billion and $17.2 billion in Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as Technology and content as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 25 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in Fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as Technology and content. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, costs from expanding our fulfillment network, and the COVID-19 related impact of lower productivity and costs to maintain safe workplaces. We expect fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q2 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to an increase in spending on technology infrastructure and increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. Marketing Marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third party customer referrals, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities and higher spending on marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2021, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $70 million and $38 million for Q1 2020 and Q1 2021, and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $202 million and $105 million during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $402 million and $399 million during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021, and was primarily related to debt and finance leases. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(406) million and $1.7 billion during Q1 2020 and Q1 2021. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign currency. Income Taxes Our income tax provisions for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021 were $744 million and $2.2 billion, which included $273 million and $349 million of net discrete tax benefits primarily attributable to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 7 Income Taxes for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 39,732 $ 67,213 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (15,395) (40,803) Free cash flow $ 24,337 $ 26,410 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (25,053) $ (59,383) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,280) $ (1,989) 27 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of finance leases and Principal repayments of financing obligations. Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 39,732 $ 67,213 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (15,395) (40,803) Free cash flow 24,337 26,410 Principal repayments of finance leases (10,013) (11,448) Principal repayments of financing obligations (43) (103) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ 14,281 14,859 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (25,053) $ (59,383) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,280) $ (1,989) Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in Principal repayments of finance leases, and Principal repayments of financing obligations. All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 39,732 $ 67,213 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (15,395) (40,803) Free cash flow 24,337 26,410 Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (12,209) (8,936) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (407) (525) Principal repayments of financing obligations (43) (103) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ 11,678 $ 16,846 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (25,053) $ (59,383) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,280) $ (1,989) ___________________ (1) For the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021, this amount relates to equipment included in Property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $13,262 million and $11,489 million. (2) For the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021, this amount relates to property included in Principal repayments of finance leases of $10,013 million and $11,448 million. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do 28 Table of Contents not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 75,452 $ 387 $ 75,839 $ 108,518 $ (2,073) $ 106,445 Operating expenses 71,463 450 71,913 99,653 (1,966) 97,687 Operating income 3,989 (63) 3,926 8,865 (107) 8,758 ___________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 29 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on April 29, 2021, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 29, 2021, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as thos e outlined in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. This guidance reflects our estimates as of April 29, 2021 regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, including those discussed above, and is highly dependent on numerous factors that we may not be able to predict or control, including: the duration and scope of the pandemic, including any recurrence; actions taken by governments, businesses, and individuals in response to the pandemic; the impact of the pandemic on global and regional economies and economic activity, workforce staffing and productivity, and our significant and continuing spending on employee safety measures; our ability to continue operations in affected areas; and consumer demand and spending patterns, as well as the effects on suppliers, creditors, and third-party sellers, all of which are uncertain. This guidance also assumes the impacts on consumer demand and spending patterns, including impacts due to concerns over the current economic outlook, will be in line with those experienced during the second quarter of 2021 to date, and the additional assumptions set forth below. However, it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact on our operations for the second quarter of 2021, or whether other currently unanticipated direct or indirect consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our operations. Second Quarter 2021 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $110.0 billion and $116.0 billion, or to grow between 24% and 30% compared with second quarter 2020. This guidance anticipates a favorable impact of approximately 200 basis points from foreign exchange rates. Operating income is expected to be between $4.5 billion and $8.0 billion, compared with $5.8 billion in second quarter 2020. This guidance assumes approximately $1.5 billion of costs related to COVID-19. This guidance assumes that Prime Day occurs in second quarter 2021. This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded. 30 Table of Contents