Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies, of our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of March 31, 2017 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $120 million . In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, 17 Table of Contents entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., the European Union and its member states, and a number of other countries are actively pursuing changes in this regard. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken in 2005 and 2006, and we have been contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS Notices of Proposed Adjustment (NOPAs). The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs in determining transfer pricing adjustments in 2005 and 2006 for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. The decision is subject to appeal. If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies Recent Accounting Pronouncements. 18 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in Item 1 of Part 1, Financial Statements Note 1 Accounting Policies, is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 2016 2017 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (1,953 ) $ (1,590 ) $ 11,563 $ 17,634 Investing activities (693 ) (1,616 ) (5,296 ) (10,798 ) Financing activities (996 ) (914 ) (4,205 ) (3,657 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $26.0 billion and $21.5 billion as of December 31, 2016 , and March 31, 2017 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $9.1 billion and $6.8 billion as of December 31, 2016 , and March 31, 2017 , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(2.0) billion and $(1.6) billion for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(693) million and $(1.6) billion for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $1.2 billion and $1.9 billion during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS). Capital expenditures included $111 million and $74 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $16 million and $45 million during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(996) million and $(914) million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $1.0 billion and $938 million in Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases was $875 million and $1.9 billion during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 , reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and other. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $9 million and $24 million in Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . We had no borrowings outstanding under our $3.0 billion Credit Agreement and $500 million of borrowings outstanding under our $500 million secured revolving credit facility as of March 31, 2017 . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 4 Long-Term Debt for additional information. We recorded net tax provisions of $475 million and $229 million in Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings, and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable 19 Table of Contents income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds were $139 million and $246 million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . As of December 31, 2016 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $76 million and we had approximately $608 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. We expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from Cash and cash equivalents to restricted cash, which is classified within Accounts receivable, net and other on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2016 , and March 31, 2017 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $600 million and $861 million . See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $9.9 billion as of March 31, 2017 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. Additionally, in March 2017, we signed an agreement to acquire Souq Group Ltd., an e-commerce company, for $580 million in cash, subject to adjustments. We expect to fund this acquisition with cash on hand, and we expect the acquisition to close in 2017, subject to customary closing conditions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain capital, finance, and operating lease arrangements, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. In Q1 2017, we combined stock-based compensation and Other operating expense, net with operating expenses in our presentation of segment results. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item 1 of Part I, Financial Statements Note 7 Segment Information. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of retail products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales represent retail third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Net Sales: North America $ 16,996 $ 20,992 International 9,566 11,061 AWS 2,566 3,661 Consolidated $ 29,128 $ 35,714 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 27 % 24 % International 24 16 AWS 64 43 Consolidated 28 23 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 27 % 23 % International 26 21 AWS 64 43 Consolidated 29 24 Net sales mix: North America 58 % 59 % International 33 31 AWS 9 10 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 23% in Q1 2017 compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(210) million and $(492) million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates below. North America sales increased 24% in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased 16% in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(177) million and $(502) million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . 21 Table of Contents AWS sales increased 43% in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 588 $ 596 International (121 ) (481 ) AWS 604 890 Consolidated $ 1,071 $ 1,005 Operating income decreased from $1.1 billion in Q1 2016 , to $1.0 billion in Q1 2017 . We believe that operating income is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $4 million for Q1 2017 . The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(32) million for Q1 2017 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(3) million for Q1 2017 . Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results for our North America and International segments is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 1,820 $ 2,497 Shipping costs (4) (3,275 ) (4,383 ) Net shipping cost $ (1,455 ) $ (1,886 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 40 % 37 % Shipping costs 42 34 Net shipping cost 44 30 ___________________ (1) Excludes amounts charged on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Includes amounts earned from Fulfillment by Amazon programs related to shipping services. (4) Includes sortation and delivery center and transportation costs. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, 22 Table of Contents negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 18,866 $ 22,440 Fulfillment 3,687 4,697 Marketing 1,436 1,920 Technology and content 3,526 4,813 General and administrative 497 795 Other operating expense, net 45 44 Total operating expenses $ 28,057 $ 34,709 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 23 % 19 % Fulfillment 34 27 Marketing 33 34 Technology and content 28 37 General and administrative 16 60 Other operating expense, net 2 (3 ) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 64.8 % 62.8 % Fulfillment 12.7 13.2 Marketing 4.9 5.4 Technology and content 12.1 13.5 General and administrative 1.7 2.2 Other operating expense, net 0.2 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including Prime Video and Prime Music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as Technology and content as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as Technology and content. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment network expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to payroll and related expenses, as well as increased spending on online marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and development of new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure costs. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure. Technology infrastructure costs consist of servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and payroll expenses. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. During Q1 2017 , we expanded our technology infrastructure principally by increasing our capacity for AWS service offerings globally, compared to the comparable prior year period. Additionally, the costs associated with operating and maintaining our expanded infrastructure have increased over time, corresponding with increased usage. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in technology infrastructure to support increased usage. See Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. During Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 , we capitalized $135 million (including $24 million of stock-based compensation) and $94 million (including $20 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $161 million and $150 million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $45 million and $44 million for Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. 24 Table of Contents Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $21 million and $39 million during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $117 million and $139 million during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our capital and finance lease arrangements and long-term debt. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $81 million and $48 million during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation and other investment gains (losses). Income Taxes Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment. Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, foreign currency gains (losses), tax law developments (including changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices), and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. For 2017 , we estimate that our effective tax rate will be favorably affected by the impact of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research and development credit and adversely affected by state income taxes. We will generate income and losses in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $475 million . Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $229 million , which included $122 million of net discrete tax benefits primarily attributable to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by the estimated impact of audit-related developments. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(68) million and $0 million during Q1 2016 and Q1 2017 . The primary components of this activity were impairments recorded in Q1 2016 and our equity-method investment losses during the periods. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $305 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. 25 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net, which is included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 11,563 17,634 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,897 ) (7,417 ) Free cash flow $ 6,666 $ 10,217 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,296 ) $ (10,798 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (4,205 ) $ (3,657 ) Free Cash Flow L e ss Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of capital lease obligations, and Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,563 $ 17,634 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,897 ) (7,417 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (2,761 ) (3,891 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (111 ) (155 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 3,794 $ 6,171 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,296 ) $ (10,798 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (4,205 ) $ (3,657 ) 26 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow L e ss Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by Principal repayments of finance lease obligations, which is included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,563 $ 17,634 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,897 ) (7,417 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,638 ) (6,717 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (111 ) (155 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ 1,917 $ 3,345 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,296 ) $ (10,798 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (4,205 ) $ (3,657 ) All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2017 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 29,128 $ 210 $ 29,338 $ 35,714 $ 492 $ 36,206 Operating expenses 28,057 260 28,317 34,709 461 35,170 Operating income 1,071 (50 ) 1,021 1,005 31 1,036 ___________________ (1) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 27 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on April 27, 2017 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.coms expectations as of April 27, 2017 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part II, Risk Factors. Second Quarter 2017 Guidance Net sales are expected to be between $35.25 billion and $37.75 billion, or to grow between 16% and 24% compared with second quarter 2016. This guidance anticipates an unfavorable impact of approximately $720 million or 240 basis points from foreign exchange rates. Operating income is expected to be between $425 million and $1.075 billion, compared with $1.3 billion in second quarter 2016. This guidance assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded. 28 Table of Contents