ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2021 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 31, 2021. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity and our ability to compete in such markets, our product strategy, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our repurchase programs, our expectations about taxes and operating expenses, the availability of third-party components and economic and political conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; the ongoing and potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or the operations of our supply chain or our customers; risks associated with the overall economy, including escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs and preferences of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate or seek to operate; our expectations regarding computer vision; our ability to effectively generate and manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of low-power system-on-a-chip, or SoC, semiconductors providing powerful artificial intelligence, or AI, processing, advanced image signal processing and high-resolution video compression. Since inception, we have primarily served human viewing applications with video and image processors for enterprise, public infrastructure and home applications, such as internet protocol, or IP, security cameras, sports cameras, wearables, aerial drones, and aftermarket automotive video recorders. In the last several years, our development efforts have focused on creating advanced AI technology that enables edge devices to visually perceive the environment and make decisions based on the data collected from cameras and, most recently, other types of sensors. This category of AI technology is known as computer vision, or CV, and our CV SoCs integrate our state-of-the-art video processor technology together with our recently developed deep learning neural network processing technology, which we refer to as CVflow. The CVflow-architecture supports a variety of CV algorithms, including object detection, classification and tracking, semantic and instance segmentation, image processing, stereo object detection, terrain mapping, and face recognition. CVflow can process other sensor modalities including lidar and radar, and allows customers to differentiate their products by porting their own, or third party, neural networks and/or classical CV algorithms to our CVflow-based SoCs. Our SoC designs fully integrate AI, computer vision functionality, HD video processing, image processing, audio processing, and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality at high compression rates, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. These CV-based technologies are allowing us to address a broader range of markets and applications requiring AI video features, including IP security cameras, a variety of automotive cameras, consumer cameras, and industrial and robotic markets and applications. We anticipate that our CV technology will also enable us to capture more content per electronic system. 23 O ur development efforts are focused on SoCs that provide both human viewing and computer vision functionality. As a result, we believe that our future revenue growth, if any, will significantly depend upon our ability to expand within camera markets with our AI and computer vision technology, particularly in the professional IP security and home security and monitoring camera markets, as well as emerging markets such as AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications, including driver monitoring systems, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, and deep learning algorithms for HD mapping solutions, OEM automotive advanced driver assistance systems , or ADAS, applications, and industrial and robotics markets. We expect our research and development expenditures to increase in comparison to prior periods as we devote additional resources to the development of innovative video and image processing solutions with increased functionality, such as AI and CV capabilities, and as we target new markets . We sell our SoC solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and OEMs globally, and in the automotive market, we also sell to Tier-1 suppliers. We refer to ODMs and Tier-1 automotive suppliers as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management and our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM or Tier-1 supplier on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within 9 to 18 months after a design win, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. In general, design cycles will be longer in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets than in the IP security and consumer device markets. Once our solutions have been incorporated into a customers design, they are likely to be used for the life cycle of the customers product. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of 6 to 18 months, while an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that product lifecycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets, as new product introductions occur less frequently in these markets. Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $79.3 million and $149.5 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, respectively. This represented increases of 58.3% and 42.7% for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The increases in revenue were primarily attributable to higher revenue and continued demand for our CV-based solutions in the IP security and automotive camera markets. In the professional IP security camera market, continued growth in the Asia region and demand recovery from our two largest China customers, together with continued sales penetration into the North America and Europe regions, resulted in a significant revenue increase in this market. In the home IP security camera market, revenue growth continued to be led by the North America region. A recovery in the automotive OEM and aftermarket applications in the Asia region, as well as the adoption of our SoCs in the automotive fleet market, contributed an increase in revenue in the automotive markets. The increased revenues from the IP security and automotive camera markets were partially offset by decreased revenue in the consumer aerial drone market. We recorded operating losses of $6.0 million and $16.1 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, respectively, as compared to operating losses of $15.3 million and $30.9 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2020, respectively. The decreased operating losses were primarily due to increases in revenue and gross profit, partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increased operating expenses, mainly in support of development of automotive markets and computer vision-based solutions, related primarily to increased marketing and engineering headcount, increased stock-based compensation expenses, as well as increased engineering related costs. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $9.9 million for the six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to $5.2 million for the six months ended July 31, 2020. The increased cash flows from operating activities were primarily due to decreased net loss and increased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to our suppliers, partially offset by increased inventory purchases associated with longer supply chain lead times and increased accounts receivable associated with the amount and timing of sales. 24 Factors Affecting Our Performance Spread of COVID-19 Could Adversely Affect our Business in a Material Way. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant governmental measures being implemented to control the spread of the virus, including, among others, restrictions on travel and the imposition of remote or work from home conditions in many of the locations where we have offices. While we have not yet experienced a significant disruption of our operations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, if the remote or work from home conditions in any of our offices continues for an extended period of time, we may experience delays in product development, a decreased ability to support our customers, reduced design win activity, and overall lack of productivity. Similarly, while we have not yet experienced a major disruption in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are experiencing significantly longer manufacturing times that, if they persist or worsen, could impact our ability to meet our customers demand for our solutions and negatively impact our revenue. As a result of these factors we have increased our inventory levels in the near term. Moreover, if there is a significant COVID-19 outbreak that impacts Samsung Electronic Corporations ability to manufacture our SoCs or our third-party contractors ability to assemble, test and ship our products, we could experience delays or reductions in our ability to ship products to our customers. For example, Taiwan recently experienced a significant rise in cases of COVID-19 that, if such conditions persist or worsen, could impact our third-party contractors ability to assemble, test and ship our products and negatively impair our operations and financial results. The pandemic may also impact our customers ability to manufacture their products, support their customers or reduce or delay demand for their products, which could, in turn, reduce such demand for our solutions. While we cannot quantify specific impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or actions taken by governments and businesses in response thereto, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected if we encounter significant supply chain problems, reductions in demand due to our customers or end customers having problems, or other unexpected COVID-19 ramifications. Ability to Capitalize on AI and Computer Vision Trends . We expect that AI and computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IP security, automotive, industrial and robotics, and certain consumer markets. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced AI computer vision technology, enable and support customer product development in emerging applications, such as ADAS, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, classification and tracking, people recognition, retail analytics, and machine learning, and gain customer acceptance of our technology platform and solutions will be critical to our future success. Moreover, achieving design wins, particularly for computer vision-centric applications in the IP security, automotive, industrial and robotics markets, is vital to our ability to generate revenue growth. As such, we closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. However, a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it does result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Ability to Develop and Introduce New or Enhanced Solutions . We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell enhanced solutions with increased levels of performance and functionality that meet the expectations of our customers. As such, we continuously invest in our research and development projects, especially AI and computer vision technologies. However, failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced solutions in response to technology shifts and trends could result in decreased revenue and our competitors achieving design wins we sought. Moreover, any reliability or quality problems with our solutions could harm our reputation, increase additional development and replacement costs, and prevent us from retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera applications or, in the future, advanced driver assistance systems, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower-performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products by us or our competitors. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is also subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities led to the decline of video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable, IP security, aerial drone and automotive cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes will continue to impact our business performance in those markets. 25 Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets and we developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets as they emerged, such as the sports camera, IP security, aerial drone and automotive video recorder camera markets. Since fiscal year 2018, the professional and consumer IP security camera markets and automotive markets, including the OEM and aftermarket video recorder market, have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. We believe, however, that continued expansion into new markets is required to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. We have recently introduced solutions to address emerging applications and markets, such as the incorporation of AI and computer vision functionalities for AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications and industrial and robotics markets. While we will continue to seek to expand our end market exposure, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trends . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, aerial drone and automotive video recorder cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and aerial drone cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. Sales Volume . A typical design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses, our end customers ability to sell their products, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle. Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. We typically commence commercial shipments from 9 to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, lengthier product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project, such as in the automotive OEM market. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of 6 to 18 months, and an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that product development and product life cycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive, Tier-1 automotive suppliers and robotics markets, as new product introductions typically occur less frequently in these markets. 26 Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2021 2020 2021 2020 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 79,327 $ 50,113 $ 149,460 $ 104,758 Cost of revenue 29,908 19,155 56,276 41,780 Gross profit 49,419 30,958 93,184 62,978 Operating expenses: Research and development 39,558 32,802 77,432 67,002 Selling, general and administrative 15,821 13,445 31,848 26,880 Total operating expenses 55,379 46,247 109,280 93,882 Loss from operations (5,960 ) (15,289 ) (16,096 ) (30,904 ) Other income, net 218 1,280 811 2,558 Loss before income taxes (5,742 ) (14,009 ) (15,285 ) (28,346 ) Provision for income taxes 1,414 747 2,689 1,873 Net loss $ (7,156 ) $ (14,756 ) $ (17,974 ) $ (30,219 ) The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 38 38 38 40 Gross profit 62 62 62 60 Operating expenses: Research and development 50 65 52 64 Selling, general and administrative 20 27 21 26 Total operating expenses 70 92 73 90 Loss from operations (8 ) (30 ) (11 ) (30 ) Other income, net 3 1 2 Loss before income taxes (8 ) (27 ) (10 ) (28 ) Provision for income taxes 1 2 2 1 Net loss (9 ) % (29 ) % (12 ) % (29 ) % Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD and Ultra HD video and image processing SoC solutions to IP security camera OEMs, IP security camera ODMs, OEM automotive or Tier-1 automotive suppliers, and consumer camera OEMs, either directly or through our distributors. In recent years, our SoC solutions have been primarily used in camera markets, such as IP security, automotive video recorder, drone and wearable cameras. Although we expect these camera markets, in particular the IP security and automotive video recorder markets, to continue to generate revenue for the foreseeable future, we have recently introduced new SoCs targeting emerging AI and computer vision applications in the IP security camera, OEM automotive, industrial and robotics markets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through one of our distributors, WT Microelectronics Co., Ltd., formerly Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech, and directly to one of our ODM customers, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony. We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the higher revenue quarter. As we transition away from consumer markets, seasonal impact has decreased. This fluctuation has been driven primarily by increased sales in IP security and consumer camera markets as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. Our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. 27 The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition and timing of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as AI and computer vision specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate . Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and testing, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in customer mix, average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras, and in future advanced automotive OEM applications, have had or are expected to have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower-performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, equipment expenses, outside services and allocated depreciation and facility expenses, net of any research and development grants. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development and development of computer vision technology, especially for the OEM automotive market. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling, general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure and expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our business strategy of addressing new opportunities with our computer vision technology. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest and other income from debt security investments and cash deposits with financial institutions. Provision for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, Germany, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates, and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure was to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. 28 Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision for income taxes and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of uncertain tax position reserves and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties . Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended July 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 79,327 $ 50,113 $ 29,214 58.3 % $ 149,460 $ 104,758 $ 44,702 42.7 % The increased revenue for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily attributable to higher revenue and continued demand for our CV-based solutions in the IP security and automotive camera markets. In the professional IP security camera market, continued growth in the Asia region and demand recovery from our two largest China customers, together with continued sales penetration into the North America and Europe regions, resulted in a significant revenue increase in this market. In the home IP security camera market, revenue growth continued to be led by the North America region. A recovery in the automotive OEM and aftermarket applications in the Asia region, as well as the adoption of our SoCs in the automotive fleet market, contributed an increase in revenue in the automotive markets. The increased revenues from the IP security and automotive camera markets were partially offset by decreased revenue in the consumer aerial drone market. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 29,908 $ 19,155 $ 10,753 56.1 % $ 56,276 $ 41,780 $ 14,496 34.7 % Gross profit 49,419 30,958 18,461 59.6 % 93,184 62,978 30,206 48.0 % Gross margin 62.3 % 61.8 % 0.5 % 62.3 % 60.1 % 2.2 % Cost of revenue increased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by favorable product mix and sales from previously reserved inventory. Gross margin increased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in the percentage of our total revenue that was derived from the higher gross margin automotive markets. Customer concentration shift from the China region to the North America and Asia regions other than China in the professional IP security camera market also contributed an improvement to the gross margin for the six months ended July 31, 2021. Research and Development Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 39,558 $ 32,802 $ 6,756 20.6 % $ 77,432 $ 67,002 $ 10,430 15.6 % 29 Research and development expense increased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased employee benefit expense and engineering related costs. For the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, employee benefit expense increased by approximately $4.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively, as a result of issuance of stock awards, employee benefit programs and an increase in headcount. Our engineering headcount was 620 at July 31, 2021 compared to 561 at July 31, 2020. Engineering related costs, including license fee, equipment expense, outside services and facility related expenses associated with the support of new applications, increased by approximately $2.1 million and $3.1 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, respectively. SoC development related costs increased by approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended July 31, 2021 while decreased by approximately $0.9 million for the six months ended July 31, 2021 due to the timing, complexity and number of chips in development. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 15,821 $ 13,445 $ 2,376 17.7 % $ 31,848 $ 26,880 $ 4,968 18.5 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased employee benefit expense. For the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, employee benefit expense increased by approximately $3.4 million and $6.0 million, respectively, as a result of issuance of stock awards, employee benefit programs and an increase in headcount. Our selling, general and administrative headcount increased from 176 at July 31, 2020 to 189 at July 31, 2021 in support of business development in the IP security, automotive OEM and robotics markets . The increase was partially offset by a reduction in facility related expenses of approximately $0.8 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, respectively, caused by additional facility allocation to engineering in support of new applications for the automotive markets as well as the development of computer vision-based solutions . Other Income, Net Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 218 $ 1,280 $ (1,062 ) (83.0 )% $ 811 $ 2,558 $ (1,747 ) (68.3 )% The decrease in other income, net, for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to lower yields from our debt security investments, lower interest from our cash deposits and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % 2021 2020 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 1,414 $ 747 $ 667 89.3 % $ 2,689 $ 1,873 $ 816 43.6 % Effective tax rate (24.6) % (5.3) % (19.3) % (17.6) % (6.6) % (11.0) % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimate of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. The increase in income tax expense for the three and six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in the proportion of profits generated in higher-tax jurisdictions, partially offset by an increase in the U.S. federal research tax credit as well as an increase in tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July 31, 2021 and January 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $449.2 million and $440.7 million, respectively. We invest in highly liquid, short-term marketable debt securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of July 31, 2021, these securities had a fair value of approximately $215.0 million with immaterial unrealized losses caused by market fluctuations. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Six Months Ended July 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,890 $ 5,222 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 2,911 (16,555 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 4,327 578 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 17,128 $ (10,755 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreased net loss and increased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to our suppliers, partially offset by increased inventory purchases associated with longer supply chain lead times and increased accounts receivable associated with the amount and timing of sales. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to net cash used in investing activities for the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $22.6 million of additional cash receipts from our debt security investments, partially offset by approximately $3.1 million of additional payments for tangible and intangible assets purchase. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2021, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $3.3 million of additional cash proceeds from option exercises and employee stock purchase withholding and $1.0 million of cash used for repurchasing our ordinary shares under the stock repurchase program in the prior fiscal year that did not recur in the current fiscal period. The increase was partially offset by approximately $0.5 million of additional payments for intangible assets. Stock Repurchase Program No ordinary shares were repurchased in the six months ended July 31, 2021. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, our Board of Directors approved an extension of the prior $50.0 million repurchase program for an additional twelve months ending June 30, 2022. As of July 31, 2021, $49.0 million remained available for repurchases under the current repurchase program through June 30, 2022. Repurchases under the program may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases, 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at the company's discretion. Repurchases are funded using working capital and any repurchased shares are recorded as authorized but unissued shares. 31 Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements As of July 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $449.2 million. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. As we expand our operations, we may require more working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders, and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities or borrowing funds commercially, we may become subject to covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- term and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the expansion of our research and development of new technologies and products to address new markets and applications; the magnitude and duration of COVID-19 impact; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Manufacturing Purchase Obligations As of July 31, 2021, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $72.3 million. Leases During the first half of fiscal year 2022, we signed a separate lease for additional space for our Shanghai, China office for a period of 40 months starting from August 1, 2021 through November 30, 2024. The lease will be recorded as an operating right-of-use asset and corresponding operating lease liability in the balance sheet upon lease commencement on August 1, 2021. T he total estimated future undiscounted cash payments for this additional lease are approximately $1.7 million. Except as described above with respect to the manufacturing purchase obligations and Shanghai office lease, there were no other material changes in our contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of July 31, 2021, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 32 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2021 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 31, 2021 .