ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2019 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 29, 2019. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity and our ability to compete in such markets, our product strategy, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our expectations about taxes and operating expenses, the availability of third-party components and economic conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs and preferences of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate or seek to operate; our expectations regarding computer vision; our ability to effectively generate and manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of semiconductor processing solutions for video that enable high-definition, or HD, video capture, analysis, sharing and display. A device that captures video includes four primary components: a lens, an image sensor, a video processor and storage memory. The video processor converts raw video input into a format that can be stored and distributed efficiently and, in some cases, analyzes the video data to automate processes. We combine our processor design capabilities with our expertise in video and image processing, computer vision algorithms and software development to provide a technology platform that is designed to be easily scalable across multiple applications in a variety of markets and enable rapid and efficient product development for our customers. Our system-on-a-chip, or SoC, designs fully integrate HD video processing, image processing, artificial intelligence, or AI, computer vision, or CV, functionality, audio processing, and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality at high compression rates, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. Over the last several years, we have been expanding our development efforts on computer vision technology that we believe complements our image processing and video compression technology, and builds a foundation to address significant opportunities in AI and CV applications for a variety of markets. We believe that enhanced computer vision functionality is critical both to our current video markets, such as IP security camera, as well as future markets such as automotive original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, cameras for advanced driving assistance systems, or ADAS, and autonomous vehicles, and robotics. Our recent development efforts have focused on creating advanced computer vision algorithms and high-performance, low-power hardware platforms to enhance processing acceleration, which we refer to as our CVflow architecture. We believe that the integration of our proprietary highly-optimized AI computer vision technology with our video processor provides an optimized CV platform. In 2017, we introduced our first computer vision semiconductor chip, the CV1 SoC. In 2018, we introduced three new computer vision-based SoCs to enable our customers to develop intelligent camera systems for a variety of markets at different feature levels. 24 Our revenue over the last three years has been generated primarily from sales of our SoC solutions for incorporation into speci alized video and image capture devices such as wearable sports cameras, automotive aftermarket cameras, IP security cameras and cameras incorporated into unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAVs or drones. Our revenue from several of these markets, however, has r ecently experienced significant declines. As a result, we believe that our future revenue growth, if any, will significantly depend upon our ability to expand within the camera markets with our video and image processing SoC solutions, particularly in the professional IP security and home security and monitoring camera markets, as well as emerging markets such as the OEM automotive and robotics markets. We expect our research and development expenditures to increase in comparison to prior periods as we de vote additional resources to the development of innovative video and image processing solutions with increased functionality, such as computer vision capabilities, and as we target new markets, such as the OEM automotive and robotics markets. We sell our SoC solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and OEMs globally, and in the automotive market, we also sell to Tier-1 suppliers to OEMs. We refer to ODMs and Tier-1 automotive suppliers as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. In the camera market, our solutions enable the creation of high-quality video content in wearable cameras, automotive cameras, Internet Protocol, or IP, security cameras, for both professional use and home security and monitoring, unmanned aerial vehicle cameras, also referred to as UAVs or drones, and virtual reality cameras, also referred to as 360 cameras. We also recently introduced, and continue to develop solutions to address emerging markets, such as the incorporation of computer vision functionalities for AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications, including auto-parking, driver monitoring systems, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, and deep learning algorithms for HD mapping solutions, OEM automotive ADAS applications and robotics markets. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management along with our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM on behalf of the OEM. In some of the new markets we are addressing, such as AI-based automotive applications, it may take longer and require more resources to secure design wins than in our traditional markets. Volume production may begin within six to 18 months or even longer after a design win, depending on the targeted market, the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. Once one of our solutions has been incorporated into a customers design, we believe that our solution is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning a product or substituting an alternative solution. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for us to generate future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months, while an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that product lifecycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive and robotics markets, as new product introductions occur less frequently in these markets. 25 Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $56.4 million and $103.6 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively. This represented decreases of 9.7% and 13.2% for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The decreases in revenue were primarily attributable to lower revenue from consumer camera markets, including sports camera, non-sports wearable camera, virtual reality, and drone markets. The decreases were also attributable to lower revenue from automotive markets, principally the video recorder market, caused by a significant slowdown in the automotive industry and promotional activity in fiscal year 2019 from a large automotive customer that did not recur in the current fiscal year. The decreased revenue was partially offset by increased revenue in the consumer IP security camera market, led by home security and monitoring market in the North America region. In the professional IP security camera market, a significant growth in the China and Europe regions, and initial ramps of our computer vision-based solutions in the North America region, resulted in significant revenue increase in the second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2020. In the sports camera market, incorporation of our solutions into newly launched sports camera products from Dajiang Innovation Technology Inc., or DJI, partially offset revenue loss from sales of our solutions to GoPro, Inc. or GoPro. We recorded operating losses of $10.4 million and $28.6 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively, as compared to operating losses of $6.7 million and $16.6 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2018, respectively. The increased operating losses were primarily due to decreased revenue and gross margin. Operating expenses increased, primarily in support of new applications for the automotive markets as well as the development of computer vision-based solutions, but were more than offset by the recognition of approximately $3.2 million of research and development grants from a foreign government during the three months ended July 31, 2019. The increase in expenses related primarily to increased engineering headcount and increased stock-based compensation expense. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $13.4 million for the six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to $7.0 million for the six months ended July 31, 2018. The increased cash flows from operating activities were primarily due to decreased inventory purchases as a result of decreased revenue and increased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers. The increased cash flows were partially offset by a larger net loss, increased non-cash expenses, decreased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers, and increased purchases of other assets. Effective February 1, 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 842, Leases. Under this new guidance, we recognize leases as right-of-use (ROU) assets and corresponding lease liabilities at the lease commencement date based on the present value of future lease payments, while recognizing lease expenses under straight-line method through the lease term . As of July 31, 2019, there were approximately $7.2 million of ROU assets, net of amortization expense, and $7.4 million of lease liabilities recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. For the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, there was approximately $0.7 million and $1.5 million of lease expense, respectively, recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. On May 29, 2019, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $50.0 million of the Companys ordinary shares commencing immediately through June 30, 2020. Repurchases may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases, 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at the Companys discretion. The repurchase program is funded using the Companys working capital and any repurchased shares are recorded as authorized but unissued shares. There were no shares repurchased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively. As of July 31, 2019, $50.0 million was available for repurchases through June 30, 2020. Factors Affecting Our Performance Ability to Capitalize on Computer Vision Trends . We expect that computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IP security, automotive, robotics, and UAV markets. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced AI computer vision technology, enable and support customer product development in emerging applications, such as ADAS, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, people recognition, retail analytics, and machine learning, and gain customer acceptance of our technology platform and solutions, will be critical to our future success. Moreover, achieving design wins, particularly for computer vision-centric applications in the IP security, automotive and robotics markets, is vital to our ability to generate revenue growth. As such, we closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. However, a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it does result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. 26 Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutio ns for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera applications or, in the future, advanced driver assistance systems, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower-performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply an d demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products by us or our competitors. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is also subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities led to the decline of video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes will continue to impact our business performance in those markets. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets. In fiscal year 2010, the majority of our revenue came from the pocket video, camcorder and infrastructure markets. Since that time, we have developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets as they emerged, such as the wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive video recorder camera markets. Since fiscal year 2013, the wearable sports, professional IP security and UAV markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. We believe, however, that expansion into new markets is required to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification as our revenue from the wearable camera and UAV camera markets has declined in recent years. We have recently introduced solutions to address emerging applications and markets, such as the incorporation of computer vision functionalities for AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications, including auto-parking, driver monitoring systems, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, deep learning algorithms for HD mapping solutions, OEM automotive ADAS applications and robotics markets. While we will continue to seek to expand our end market exposure, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trends . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive video recorder cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and UAV cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. Sales Volume . A typical design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses, our end customers ability to sell their products, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle. 27 Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. We typically commence commercial shipments from six to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, more lengthy product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project, such as in the automotive OEM market. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months, and an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that product development and product life cyc les will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive, Tier-1 automotive suppliers and robotics markets, as new product introductions typically occur less frequently in these markets . Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 56,410 $ 62,474 $ 103,598 $ 119,412 Cost of revenue 23,973 24,461 43,308 46,507 Gross profit 32,437 38,013 60,290 72,905 Operating expenses: Research and development 30,420 32,129 63,437 63,793 Selling, general and administrative 12,425 12,566 25,502 25,744 Total operating expenses 42,845 44,695 88,939 89,537 Loss from operations (10,408 ) (6,682 ) (28,649 ) (16,632 ) Other income, net 2,195 732 4,391 1,524 Loss before income taxes (8,213 ) (5,950 ) (24,258 ) (15,108 ) Provision for income taxes 1,978 927 3,244 1,775 Net loss $ (10,191 ) $ (6,877 ) $ (27,502 ) $ (16,883 ) The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 42 39 42 39 Gross profit 58 61 58 61 Operating expenses: Research and development 54 51 61 53 Selling, general and administrative 22 20 25 22 Total operating expenses 76 71 86 75 Loss from operations (18 ) (10 ) (28 ) (14 ) Other income, net 4 1 4 1 Loss before income taxes (14 ) (9 ) (24 ) (13 ) Provision for income taxes 4 2 3 1 Net loss (18 ) % (11 ) % (27 ) % (14 ) % Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD and Ultra HD video and image processing SoC solutions to IP security OEMs, IP security ODMs, OEM automotive or Tier-1 automotive suppliers, either directly or through our distributors. In recent years, our SoC solutions have been primarily used in camera markets, such as IP security, automotive video recorder, drone and wearable cameras. Although we expect these camera markets, in particular the IP security camera market, to continue to generate revenue for the foreseeable future, we have recently introduced new SoCs targeting emerging computer vision applications in the IP security, OEM automotive, and robotics markets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through one of our distributors, Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech, and directly to one of our ODM customers, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony. 28 We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the highest revenue quarter. This fluctuation has been driven primarily by increased sales in I P security and consumer camera markets as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. Due to experienced declines in demand for our solutions in several consumer camera markets, including wearable camera, virtual reality and drone markets , the seasonal impact on quarterly revenue may not be as significant as in prior years. More generally, our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in u nit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels . The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition and timing of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as computer vision specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and testing, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras, and in future advanced automotive OEM applications, have had or are expected to have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower-performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. We believe that our gross margin will decline in the future as we continue to penetrate the highly competitive camera market and, in particular, the IP security market. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses, net of any research and development grants. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development and development of computer vision technology, especially for the OEM automotive market. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling, general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure and expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our business strategy of addressing new opportunities with our computer vision technology. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest and other income from debt security investments and cash deposits with financial institutions. 29 Provision for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates, and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure was to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision for income taxes and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of uncertain tax position reserves and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 56,410 $ 62,474 $ (6,064 ) (9.7 )% $ 103,598 $ 119,412 $ (15,814 ) (13.2 )% The decreases in revenue for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, were primarily attributable to lower revenue from consumer camera markets, including sports camera, non-sports wearable camera, virtual reality, and drone markets. The decreases were also attributable to lower revenue from automotive markets, principally the video recorder market, caused by a significant slowdown in the automotive industry and promotional activity in fiscal year 2019 from a large automotive customer that did not recur in the current fiscal year. The decreased revenue was partially offset by increased revenue in the consumer IP security camera market, led by home security and monitoring market in the North America region. In the professional IP security camera market, a significant growth in the China and Europe regions, and initial ramps of our computer vision-based solutions in the North America region, resulted in significant revenue increase in the second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2020. In the sports camera market, incorporation of our solutions into newly launched sports camera products from Dajiang Innovation Technology Inc., or DJI, partially offset revenue loss from sales of our solutions to GoPro, Inc. or GoPro. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 23,973 $ 24,461 $ (488 ) (2.0 )% $ 43,308 $ 46,507 $ (3,199 ) (6.9 )% Gross profit 32,437 38,013 (5,576 ) (14.7 )% 60,290 72,905 (12,615 ) (17.3 )% Gross margin 57.5 % 60.8 % (3.3 )% 58.2 % 61.1 % (2.9 )% Cost of revenue decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreased revenue in the sports camera, wearable camera, drone and automotive camera markets. The decrease in cost of revenue was partially offset by increased shipments of SoCs for the IP security camera markets. 30 Gross margin decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increa se in the percentage of our total revenue that was derived from the lower gross margin IP security camera markets combined with the decline in revenue from the higher gross margin sports camera, drone and automotive OEM markets . The decreased gross margin was also attributable to rising tariffs that had great impact on our customers ability to sell their products incorporating our higher gross margin devices and increased costs to accelerate orders as a result of increased geopolitical challenges from our supply-chain. Research and Development Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 30,420 $ 32,129 $ (1,709 ) (5.3 )% $ 63,437 $ 63,793 $ (356 ) (0.6 )% Research and development expense decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $3.2 million of research and development grants from a foreign government. The decrease was partially offset by increased salary-related and employee benefit expenses as a result of increased headcount, issuance of stock and bonus program. Our engineering headcount increased to 559 at July 31, 2019 compared to 547 at July 31, 2018. For the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, salary-related expenses increased by approximately $0.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively, and employee benefit expense increased by approximately $0.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively. The SoC development cost was relatively flat for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, due to the timing and number of chips in development. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 12,425 $ 12,566 $ (141 ) (1.1 )% $ 25,502 $ 25,744 $ (242 ) (0.9 )% Selling, general and administrative expense was relatively flat for the three months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decreased selling, general and administrative expense for the six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily attributable to approximately $0.8 million less expenditures on outside professional services, which was partially offset by approximately $0.9 million of additional salary-related and employee benefit expenses. Other Income, Net Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 2,195 $ 732 $ 1,463 199.9 % $ 4,391 $ 1,524 $ 2,867 188.1 % The increase in other income, net, for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to aggregate increases of approximately $1.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, in interest and other income from our deposits and debt security investments. The increases were primarily the result of larger invested balances, higher interest rate and debt securities purchased at discounts. 31 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % 2019 2018 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 1,978 $ 927 $ 1,051 113.4 % $ 3,244 $ 1,775 $ 1,469 82.8 % Effective tax rate (24.1) % (15.6) % (8.5) % (13.4) % (11.7) % (1.7) % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimate of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. The increase in income tax expense for the three and six months ended July 31, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in non-deductible stock-based compensation, as well as a decrease in the proportion of profits generated in lower-tax jurisdictions and losses incurred in jurisdictions for which the Company was not able to recognize a related tax benefit. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July 31, 2019 and January 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $375.8 million and $358.9 million, respectively. We invest in highly liquid, short-term marketable debt securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of July 31, 2019, these securities had a fair value of approximately $208.3 million with insignificant unrealized losses caused by fluctuations in market value. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Six Months Ended July 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 13,419 $ 6,977 Net cash provided by investing activities 11,871 5,254 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,354 (63,614 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 28,644 $ (51,383 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreased inventory purchases as a result of decreased revenue and increased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers. The increased cash flows were partially offset by a larger net loss, increased non-cash expenses, decreased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers, and increased purchases of other assets. Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an additional $57.1 million in cash receipts from the sale and maturity of debt securities, which was partially offset by approximately $51.5 million of additional investments in debt securities. The increase was also attributable to approximately $1.0 million smaller expenditure on property and equipment purchases. 32 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to $65.6 million of cash used for the repurchasing of our ordinary shares under the stock repurchase program during the six months ended July 31, 2018 that was not incurred during the six months ended July 31, 2019. The increase was also attributable to approximately $1.8 million of additional cash proceeds from option exercises and employee stock purchase withholding. The increase was partially offset by additional payments of approximately $0.4 million in cash for intangible assets purchased in fiscal year 2020. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements As of July 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $375.8 million. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. As we expand our operations, we may require more working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders, and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short-term and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the expansion of our research and development of new technologies and products to address new markets and applications; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Manufacturing Purchase Obligations As of July 31, 2019, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $41.3 million. Leases The Company adopted ASC 842, Leases on February 1, 2019. As a result, the contractual obligations related to future lease payments are reflected on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as lease liabilities as of July 31, 2019. See Note 7, "Leases" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details about the lease liabilities. Except as described above with respect to the manufacturing purchase obligations and leases, there were no other material changes in our contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of July 31, 2019, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. 33 Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2019 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 29, 2019, except for the recently adopted accounting guidance on leases as discussed in Notes 1 and 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.