ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2015 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 30, 2015. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, targets, seek or continue and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity, our ability to develop new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, sales and marketing strategy, investment strategy, research and development, customer and supplier relationships, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, expectations about seasonality, taxes, and operating expenses. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to, the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of semiconductor processing solutions for video that enable high-definition, or HD, video capture, sharing and display. We combine our processor design capabilities with our expertise in video and image processing algorithms and software to provide a technology platform that is designed to be easily scalable across multiple applications and enable rapid and efficient product development. Our system-on-a-chip, or SoC, designs fully integrate HD video processing, image processing, audio processing and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. We sell our solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally. We refer to ODMs as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. In the camera market, our solutions enable the creation of high-quality video content primarily for wearable sports cameras, Internet Protocol, or IP, security cameras, and automotive aftermarket cameras. In the infrastructure market, our solutions efficiently manage IP video traffic, broadcast encoding, transcoding and IP video delivery applications. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management along with our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within six to 18 months after a design win, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. Once one of our solutions has been incorporated into a customers design, we believe that our solution is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning a product or substituting an alternative solution. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for us to generate future revenue from such customers product. 19 Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $71.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, an increase of 73.5% as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014. Revenue increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to strong demand for our A9 and A7L SoCs in the wearable, including sports, IP security, and automotive aftermarket camera markets. The strong growth reflected a broader adoption of our SoCs by current customers as well as the addition of new customers primarily selling into the wearable sports and automotive markets. The increase was partially offset by a year-over-year decline in the infrastructure market as a result of continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as system manufacturers continue to delay investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 compression technology. We recorded operating income of $20.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, as compared to $5.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014. The increase was primarily due to continuous growth in revenue, as well as efficient control of product cost and operating expenses. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $24.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, as compared to $10.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to increased net income, adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and improved accounts receivable collection associated with the timing of payments from our major customers. The increase was partially offset by decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers and increased inventory purchases to support continuing growth of sales. Factors Affecting Our Performance Design Wins . We closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although the revenue generated by each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers and internal estimations of customer demand factoring in the expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and the features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in the infrastructure market, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into the camera market. Our average selling price, or ASP, can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities, and the rapid adoption by consumers, led to the decline of pocket video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable sports cameras, IP security cameras and automotive aftermarket cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes in the market to continue to impact our business performance. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets. In fiscal year 2010, the majority of our revenue came from the pocket video, camcorder and infrastructure markets. Over the last five years, we have continued to provide solutions for the camcorder and infrastructure markets, but also have expanded our focus to include the wearable sports, IP security and automotive aftermarket camera markets. We believe our entry into these markets will continue to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. While we will continue to expand our end market exposure, such as to non-sports wearable cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAV, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. 20 Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trend . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable sports cameras, IP security and automotive aftermarket cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable sports cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. Sales Volume . A typical design win can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. This can depend on several factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle. Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. In general, products launched in the camera market have shorter life cycles than those sold into the infrastructure market. We typically commence commercial shipments from six to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, more lengthy product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months. In the infrastructure market, the product life cycle can range from 24 to 60 months. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 71,013 $ 40,921 Cost of revenue 25,095 15,325 Gross profit 45,918 25,596 Operating expenses: Research and development 16,583 12,914 Selling, general and administrative 9,010 6,755 Total operating expenses 25,593 19,669 Income from operations 20,325 5,927 Other income 27 49 Income before income taxes 20,352 5,976 Provision for income taxes 1,498 716 Net income $ 18,854 $ 5,260 21 The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 35 37 Gross profit 65 63 Operating expenses: Research and development 23 32 Selling, general and administrative 13 17 Total operating expenses 36 49 Income from operations 29 14 Other income (loss), net Income before income taxes 29 14 Provision for income taxes 2 2 Net income 27 % 12 % Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD video and image processing SoC solutions to OEMs and ODMs, either directly or through our logistics providers. Our SoC solutions have been used in the camera and infrastructure markets, and we expect these will be the primary markets for our solutions for the foreseeable future. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through our logistics provider, Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech, and directly to one large ODM customer, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony. We typically experience seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the highest revenue quarter. This fluctuation has been driven primarily by increased sales in the camera market as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. More generally, our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as more specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and test, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in the infrastructure market, have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the camera market. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. We believe that our gross margin will decline in the future as we continue to penetrate the highly competitive camera market and as we launch our solutions into new markets. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings. 22 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling expense to increase in absolute dollars as we expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our anticipated growth. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively flat as a percentage of revenue as we continue to develop the infrastructure necessary to operate as a public company, which includes increased audit and legal fees, costs to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, investor relations costs, and higher insurance premiums. Other Income Other income consists primarily of investment interest income and net of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision for Income Taxes We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. As such, our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit; by transfer pricing adjustments and by tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have experienced lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure was to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 71,013 $ 40,921 $ 30,092 73.5 % Revenue increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to strong demand for our A9 and A7L SoCs in the wearable, including sports, IP security, and automotive aftermarket camera markets. The strong growth reflected a broader adoption of our SoCs by current customers as well as the addition of new customers primarily selling into the wearable sports and automotive markets. The increase was partially offset by a yearover-year decline in the infrastructure market as a result of continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as system manufacturers continue to delay investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 compression technology. 23 Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 25,095 $ 15,325 $ 9,770 63.8 % Gross profit 45,918 25,596 20,322 79.4 % Gross margin 64.7 % 62.5 % 2.2 % Cost of revenue increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 primarily due to an increase in the number of SoCs sold into the camera markets. The increase was partially offset by cost reductions received from suppliers for certain SoCs due to increased purchase volumes. Gross margin increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a higher percentage of revenues associated with higher gross margin shipments of our A7L and A9 chips into the camera markets. The increase was partially offset by continuing reduction in the higher gross margin infrastructure business. Infrastructure revenue declined as a percentage of total revenue from 10.4% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 to 4.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2015. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 16,583 $ 12,914 $ 3,669 28.4 % Research and development expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to increased engineering headcount and third party development costs associated with chip development. Our research and development engineering headcount increased to 381 at April 30, 2015 compared to 351 at April 30, 2014, resulting in an increase in salary related expenses of approximately $1.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015. The increases were also attributable to additional stock-based compensation of approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, as a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly hired employees, our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees and increase in the fair market value of the Companys ordinary shares. The development costs associated with new chips increased by approximately $1.9 million in the three months ended April 30, 2015 but were partially offset by $0.9 million in payments from certain customers who agreed to share development costs. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 9,010 $ 6,755 $ 2,255 33.4 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 primarily due to an additional $1.8 million in compensation cost as a result of increases in headcount and stock-based compensation from issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly hired employees, our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees, and increase in the fair market value of the Companys ordinary shares. In addition, we incurred approximately $0.4 million of additional expenditures on outside professional services to support rapid growth of our business and the requirements of being a public company. Other Income Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income $ 27 $ 49 $ (22 ) (44.9 )% The decrease in other income for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currency transactions and measurement of assets. 24 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2014 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 1,498 $ 716 $ 782 109.2 % Effective tax rate 7.4 % 12.0 % (4.6 )% The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a higher geographic mix of profits generated in lower tax jurisdictions and the tax effects of higher deductible stock-based compensation expense. Our quarterly income taxes reflect an estimation of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2015 and January 31, 2015, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $235.2 million and $208.0 million, respectively. Beginning in fiscal year 2015, we invested $40.0 million in highly liquid, short-term marketable securities. We hold these investments as available-for-sale securities and mark them to market. As of April 30, 2015, these securities had a fair value of approximately $40.2 million with insignificant unrealized losses caused by fluctuations in market value and interest rates. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 24,793 $ 10,270 Net cash used in investing activities (832 ) (26,618 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,059 2,434 Net increase in cash $ 27,020 $ (13,914 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 primarily due to increased net income, adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and improved accounts receivable collection associated with the timing of payments from our major customers. The increase was partially offset by decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers and increased inventory purchases to support continuing growth of sales. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 primarily due to partial selling and maturities of debt securities that were not immediately reinvested associated with timing of investment at April 30, 2015. The decrease was also attributable to an initial $30 million of short-term debt securitiesinvestments incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 that was not repeated in the current quarter of fiscal year 2016. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an additional $0.7 million in cash proceeds from option exercises and contributions from participants in the employee stock purchase plan. 25 Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements We have generated net income in each quarter beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, and we have generated cash from operations in each of fiscal years 2009 to 2015 and for the three months ended April 30, 2015. We believe that our anticipated cash generated from operations and our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, implement and enhance our information technology platforms and to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect our accounts receivable and inventory balances to increase, and could be partially offset by increases in accounts payable, which will result in a greater need for working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of April 30, 2015: Payment Due by Period as of April 30, 2015 (in thousands) Less than More than All Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years Other Contractual Obligations Facilities under operating leases $ 4,603 $ 1,416 $ 2,949 $ 238 $ $ Technology license or other obligations under operating leases 6,242 2,816 3,426 Purchase obligations 38,126 38,126 Uncertain tax liabilities 1,403 1,403 Total $ 50,374 $ 42,358 $ 6,375 $ 238 $ $ 1,403 As of April 30, 2015, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $38.1 million. Uncertain tax liabilities represent our potential liabilities related to uncertain tax positions as of April 30, 2015. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2015, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 26 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2015 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 30, 2015.