Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2018 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 30, 2018. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity and our ability to compete in such markets, our product strategy, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our expectations about taxes and operating expenses, the availability of third-party components and economic conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs and preferences of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate or seek to operate; our expectations regarding computer vision; our ability to effectively generate and manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of semiconductor processing solutions for video that enable high-definition, or HD, video capture, analysis, sharing, and display. A device that captures video includes four primary components: a lens, an image sensor, a video processor and storage memory. The video processor converts raw video input into a format that can be stored, analyzed and distributed efficiently and, in some cases, analyzes the video data to automate processes. We combine our processor design capabilities with our expertise in video, image processing and computer vision algorithms and software to provide a technology platform that is designed to be easily scalable across multiple applications and enable rapid and efficient product development. Our system-on-a-chip, or SoC, designs fully integrate HD video processing, image processing and analysis, audio processing and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. We sell our solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally. We refer to ODMs as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. In the camera market, our solutions enable the creation of high-quality video content in wearable cameras, automotive cameras, Internet Protocol, or IP, security cameras, for both professional use and home security and monitoring, unmanned aerial vehicle cameras, also referred to as UAVs or drones, and virtual reality cameras, also referred to as 360 cameras. In the infrastructure market, our solutions efficiently manage IP video traffic, broadcast encoding, transcoding and IP video delivery applications. We have also recently introduced, and continue to develop, solutions to address emerging markets, such as the incorporation of computer vision functionality for OEM automotive advanced driving assistance systems and robotics markets. 25 Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutio ns, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management along with our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customer s decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation o f our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within six to 18 months after a design win, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no in fluence. Once one of our solutions has been incorporated into a customers design, we believe that our solution is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning a produ ct or substituting an alternative solution. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for us to generate future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component throug h the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. A portable consumer device typicall y has a product life cycle of six to 18 months, while an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that OEM automotive products will have life cycles longer than 2 years. Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $57.3 million and $176.7 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively. This represented decreases of 35.7% and 21.4% for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue was primarily attributable to declines in revenue from wearable camera markets, including sports camera, virtual reality and non-sports wearable camera markets. The decrease was also attributable to lower revenue from the drone market as a result of Dajiang Innovation Technology Inc., or DJI, the major customer in the drone market, shifting its consumer-based drones to competitive solutions, as well as continued weakness from smaller drone customers. The declines in revenue in the wearable camera and drone markets were partially offset by revenue growth in the automotive and IP security camera markets. The revenue growth in the automotive camera market was primarily due to a significant increase in shipments of OEM automotive video recorders in the Japan and China regions, offset by lower revenue from the automotive aftermarket. In the IP security market, the consumer IP security camera market demonstrated strong growth, led by expansion of revenues from the home security and monitoring market in the North America region. Revenue in the professional IP security camera market was down slightly for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, which was primarily due to a decline in orders from a major China customer, partially offset by increased revenue from non-China customers. We recorded operating losses of $9.4 million and $26.1 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to operating income of $15.1 million and $23.0 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2017, respectively. The decreases in operating income were primarily due to decreased revenue and increased expenses incurred primarily in support of new applications in the automotive OEM market as well as the development of computer vision based solutions. The increase in expenses related primarily to increased research and development headcount, chip tape-out fees and increased stock-based compensation expense. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $10.5 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to $60.3 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2017. The decreased cash flows from operating activities were primarily due to decreased net income as a result of decreased revenue and increased operating expenses. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities also was attributable to decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers, partially offset by increased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers. On June 4, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $100.0 million of our ordinary shares over a twelve-month period commencing June 5, 2018. We repurchased 825,191 shares for approximately $30.8 million in cash during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2,381,832 shares for approximately $96.4 million in cash during the nine months ended October 31, 2018. As of October 31, 2018, we had repurchased a total of 3,881,716 shares for approximately $171.3 million in cash since the inception of the repurchase programs in June 2016 and approximately $35.4 million remained available for repurchases under the current repurchase program through June 4, 2019. Repurchases are funded using working capital and any repurchased shares are recorded as authorized but unissued shares. 26 Factors Affecting Our Performance Design Wins . We closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it does result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers and internal estimations of customer demand factoring in the expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential. Our ability to accurately forecast demand, however, can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower-performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities, and the rapid adoption of smartphones by consumers, led to the decline of pocket video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes in the market to continue to impact our business performance. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets. In fiscal year 2010, the majority of our revenue came from the pocket video, camcorder and infrastructure markets. Since that time, we have developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets as they emerged, such as the wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive camera markets. Since fiscal year 2013, the wearable sports and professional IP security markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. We believe, however, that expansion into new markets is required to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification as wearable camera and UAV camera markets have recently slowed. While we will continue to expand our end market exposure, such as to home security and monitoring cameras, non-sports wearable cameras, UAVs, automotive, virtual reality cameras and robotics applications, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trends . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and UAV cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. Ability to Capitalize on Computer Vision Trends . We expect that computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IP security, wearable, UAV, automotive and robotics markets. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced computer vision technology, enable and support customer product development in emerging applications such as advanced driver-assistance systems, object detection, people recognition and machine learning, and gain customer acceptance of our technology platform and solutions, will be critical to our future success. 27 Sales Volume . A typical camera design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. This can depend on several factors, including the reputation of the end customer, mark et penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufac turing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle . Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. In general, products launched in the camera market have shorter life cycles than those sold into the infrastructure market. We typically commence commercial shipments from six to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, more lengthy product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months, and an IP security camera typically has a product life cycle of 12 to 24 months. We anticipate that product development and product life cycles will typically be longer in the OEM automotive and robotics markets. In the infrastructure market, the product life cycle can range from 24 to 60 months. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 57,286 $ 89,062 $ 176,698 $ 224,827 Cost of revenue 22,701 32,448 69,208 82,445 Gross profit 34,585 56,614 107,490 142,382 Operating expenses: Research and development 31,653 29,796 95,446 83,936 Selling, general and administrative 12,354 11,700 38,098 35,406 Total operating expenses 44,007 41,496 133,544 119,342 Income (loss) from operations (9,422 ) 15,118 (26,054 ) 23,040 Other income, net 993 319 2,517 696 Income (loss) before income taxes (8,429 ) 15,437 (23,537 ) 23,736 Provision for income taxes 592 3,713 2,367 6,145 Net income (loss) $ (9,021 ) $ 11,724 $ (25,904 ) $ 17,591 The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 40 36 39 37 Gross profit 60 64 61 63 Operating expenses: Research and development 55 33 54 37 Selling, general and administrative 22 13 22 16 Total operating expenses 77 46 76 53 Income (loss) from operations (17 ) 18 (15 ) 10 Other income, net 2 1 Income (loss) before income taxes (15 ) 18 (14 ) 10 Provision for income taxes 1 4 1 3 Net income (loss) (16 ) % 14 % (15 ) % 7 % 28 Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD and Ultra HD video and image processing SoC solutions to OEMs and ODMs, either directly or through our distributors. Our SoC solutions have been primarily used in the camera markets, such as IP security, automotive video recorder, drone and wearable cameras. Although we expect these camera markets to continue to generate revenue for the foreseeable future, we are introducing new SoCs targeting emerging computer vision applications in the IP security, OEM automotive, and robotics markets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through one of our distributors, Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech, and directly to one of our ODM customers, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony. We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the highest revenue quarter. This fluctuation has been driven primarily by increased sales in consumer camera markets as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. Due to experienced declines in demand for our solutions in several consumer camera markets, including wearable camera, virtual reality and drone markets , the seasonal impact on quarterly revenue is not significant in the current fiscal year. More generally, our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition and timing of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as computer vision specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and testing, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower-performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. We believe that our gross margin will decline in the future as we continue to penetrate the highly competitive camera market and, in particular, the IP security market. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development and development of computer vision technology, especially for the OEM automotive market. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling, general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure and expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our business strategy of addressing new opportunities with our computer vision technology. 29 Other Income, Net Other income consists primarily of interest income from deposits with financial institutions and interest income from investments in debt securities, net of interest expense incurred for intangible assets purchased and gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure was to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision for income taxes and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of uncertain tax position reserves and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, was enacted into law in the United States. The new tax legislation makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that are generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. We have completed our accounting related to the tax impact of the Tax Act in the quarter ended October 31, 2018. Refer to Note 13, Income Taxes, of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for details of our evaluation. Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 57,286 $ 89,062 $ (31,776 ) (35.7 )% $ 176,698 $ 224,827 $ (48,129 ) (21.4 )% The decreased revenue for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily attributable to declines in revenue from wearable camera markets, including sports camera, virtual reality and non-sports wearable camera markets. The decrease was also attributable to lower revenue from the drone market as a result of Dajiang Innovation Technology Inc., or DJI, the major customer in the drone market, shifting its consumer-based drones to competitive solutions, as well as continued weakness from smaller drone customers. The declines in revenue in the wearable camera and drone markets were partially offset by revenue growth in the automotive and IP security camera markets. The revenue growth in the automotive camera market was primarily due to a significant increase in shipments of OEM automotive video recorders in the Japan and China regions, offset by lower revenue from the automotive aftermarket. In the IP security market, the consumer IP security camera market demonstrated strong growth, led by expansion of revenues from the home security and monitoring market in the North America region. Revenue in the professional IP security camera market was down slightly for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, which was primarily due to a decline in orders from a major China customer, partially offset by increased revenue from non-China customers. 30 Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 22,701 $ 32,448 $ (9,747 ) (30.0 )% $ 69,208 $ 82,445 $ (13,237 ) (16.1 )% Gross profit 34,585 56,614 (22,029 ) (38.9 )% 107,490 142,382 (34,892 ) (24.5 )% Gross margin 60.4 % 63.6 % (3.2 )% 60.8 % 63.3 % (2.5 )% Cost of revenue decreased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower revenue in the wearable camera and drone markets. The cost of revenue decreases were partially offset by increased shipments of SoCs for the IP security camera and automotive OEM markets. Gross margin decreased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in the percentage of our total revenue that was derived from the lower gross margin IP security camera market combined with a decline in revenue from the higher gross margin drone market. Research and Development Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 31,653 $ 29,796 $ 1,857 6.2 % $ 95,446 $ 83,936 $ 11,510 13.7 % Research and development expense increased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in engineering headcount and chip development cost associated with the computer vision technology development for our current markets, as well as new markets such as the automotive OEM and robotics markets. Our engineering headcount increased to 552 at October 31, 2018 compared to 503 at October 31, 2017, which resulted in an increase in salary-related expenses of approximately $1.5 million and $5.5 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively. The increased research and development expense was also attributable to additional stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.8 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly hired employees and our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees. The SoC development cost was relatively flat for the three months ended October 31, 2018, but increased by approximately $3.4 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, due to the timing and number of chips in development. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 12,354 $ 11,700 $ 654 5.6 % $ 38,098 $ 35,406 $ 2,692 7.6 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to our selling, general and administrative headcount increasing to 175 at October 31, 2018 compared to 168 at October 31, 2017. The increased headcount resulted in an increase in salary-related expenses of approximately $0.7 million and $1.7 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, respectively. For the nine months ended October 31, 2018, the increase was also attributable to additional stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.6 million, as a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly-hired employees and our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees, and approximately $0.6 million of additional expenditures on outside professional services to support our business. 31 Other Income, Net Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 993 $ 319 $ 674 211.3 % $ 2,517 $ 696 $ 1,821 261.6 % The increase in other income, net, for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to an aggregate of approximately $0.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of additional interest and other income from our deposits and debt security investments. The increase is primarily the result of larger invested balances, interest rate increases and debt securities purchased at discounts. During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we invested an additional $100.0 million in debt securities. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % 2018 2017 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 592 $ 3,713 $ (3,121 ) (84.1) % $ 2,367 $ 6,145 $ (3,778 ) (61.5) % Effective tax rate (7.0) % 24.1 % (31.1) % (10.1) % 25.9 % (36.0) % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimation of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. The decreased income tax expense for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2018, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to a reduction in the U.S. statutory rate from 35% to 21%, which was partially offset by a decrease in the proportion of profits generated in lower-tax jurisdictions and losses incurred in jurisdictions for which the Company was not able to recognize a related tax benefit. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of October 31, 2018 and January 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $348.6 million and $434.6 million, respectively. We invest in highly liquid, short-term marketable securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of October 31, 2018, these securities had a fair value of approximately $203.4 million with insignificant unrealized losses caused by fluctuations in market value. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Nine Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,498 $ 60,294 Net cash used in investing activities (50,650 ) (13,228 ) Net cash used in financing activities (94,180 ) (49,004 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (134,332 ) $ (1,938 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased for the nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreased net income as a result of decreased revenue and increased operating expenses. The decrease also was attributable to decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers, partially offset by increased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers. 32 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased for the nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $86.0 million of additional investments in debt securities. The increased cash used in investing activities was partially offset by an increase of approximately $48.6 million in cash receipts from the sale and maturity of debt securities. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased for the nine months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to additional payments of $44.9 million in cash for the repurchase of our ordinary shares under the stock repurchase program. Stock Repurchase Program On June 4, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $100.0 million of our ordinary shares over a twelve-month period commencing June 5, 2018. Since the inception of the repurchase programs in June 2016, a total of $225.0 million has been authorized and we have repurchased a total of 3,881,716 shares for approximately $171.3 million in cash. As of October 31, 2018, approximately $35.4 million remained available for repurchases under the current repurchase program through June 4, 2019. Repurchases under the program may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases, 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at the company's discretion. Repurchases are funded using working capital and any repurchased shares are recorded as authorized but unissued shares. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements As of October 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $348.6 million. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. As we expand our operations, we may require more working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the expansion of our research and development of new technologies and products to address new markets and applications; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Manufacturing Purchase Obligations As of October 31, 2018, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $21.8 million. 33 Except as described above with respect to the manufacturing purchase obligations, there were no other material changes in our contractual ob ligations, commitments and contingencies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contract ual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2018, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2018 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 30, 2018, except for the recently adopted accounting guidance on revenue recognition as discussed in Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.