ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2016 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 25, 2016. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast or continue and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity, our ability to develop new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, sales and marketing strategy, investment strategy, research and development, customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, expectations about seasonality, economic conditions, taxes, the availability of third-party components and operating expenses. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to, the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of semiconductor processing solutions for video that enable high-definition, or HD, video capture, sharing and display. A device that captures video includes four primary components: a lens, an image sensor, a video processor and storage memory. The video processor converts raw video input into a format that can be stored and distributed efficiently. We combine our processor design capabilities with our expertise in video and image processing algorithms and software to provide a technology platform that is designed to be easily scalable across multiple applications and enable rapid and efficient product development. Our system-on-a-chip, or SoC, designs fully integrate HD video processing, image processing, audio processing and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. 20 We sell our solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally. We refer to ODMs as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise req uires. In the camera market, our solutions enable the creation of high-quality video content primarily for wearable sports cameras, Internet Protocol, or IP, security cameras, unmanned aerial vehicle cameras, also referred to as UAVs, drones or flying came ras, and automotive aftermarket cameras. In the infrastructure market, our solutions efficiently manage IP video traffic, broadcast encoding, transcoding and IP video delivery applications. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management along with our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within six to 18 months after a design win, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. Once one of our solutions has been incorporated into a customers design, we believe that our solution is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning a product or substituting an alternative solution. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for us to generate future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $57.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, which was our first quarter of fiscal year 2017. This represented a decrease of 19.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2016. The decrease was primarily due to significant revenue decline in the wearable sports camera market as a result of continued high inventory levels at a major customer. We anticipate that these high inventory levels at our customer will continue to adversely impact our revenue in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decline in revenue from the wearable sports camera market was partially offset by strong growth in the UAV and home security and monitoring markets. In the professional IP security market, we experienced a decline in revenues from customers located in the China region in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 due to continuing macroeconomic weakness, which offset stronger growth in other geographic regions in the period. In the automotive aftermarket, which is dominated by demand from Asia, revenue was down moderately in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 primarily due to slowing revenues in China. For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the infrastructure market was flat sequentially due to the continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as system manufacturers continue to delay investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 video compression technology. We expect to experience some adverse impact to our business in the next couple of quarters due to the disruption in supply of image sensors from Sony Corporation to our customers resulting from the damage to its production facility caused by the April 2016 earthquake in Kumamoto, Japan. This disruption in image sensor supply impacts our customers ability to build camera devices and, as a result, impacts the timing and scope of demand for our SoCs. At this time, we are unable to quantify the adverse impact. We recorded operating income of $1.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as compared to $20.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to decreased revenue, as well as increased research and development costs as a result of timing and number of chips in development. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $15.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as compared to $24.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015. The decreased cash flows from operating activities was primarily due to decreased net income as adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation. The decrease also was attributable to decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers and decreased deferred revenue associated with the timing of inventory shipments by our logistics providers. The decrease was partially offset by decreased accounts receivable associated with the timing of payments from customers and decreased inventory purchases associated with a decrease in near term revenue forecasts. 21 Factors Affecting Our Performance Design Wins . We closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if they result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers and internal estimations of customer demand factoring in the expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential. Our ability to accurately forecast demand, however, can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and the features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price, or ASP, can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities, and the rapid adoption by consumers, led to the decline of pocket video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive aftermarket cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes in the market to continue to impact our business performance. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets. In fiscal year 2010, the majority of our revenue came from the pocket video, camcorder and infrastructure markets. Since that time, we have developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets such as the wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive aftermarket camera markets. We believe these new markets can continue to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. Since fiscal year 2013, the wearable sports and IP security markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. While we will continue to expand our end market exposure, such as to home security and monitoring cameras, non-sports wearable cameras and UAVs, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trend . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive aftermarket cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and UAV cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. 22 Sales Volume . A typical camera design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. This can depend on several factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of th e end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In gener al, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle . Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. In general, products launched in the camera market have shorter life cycles than those sold into the infrastructure market. We typically commence commercial shipments from six to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, more lengthy product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months. In the infrastructure market, the product life cycle can range from 24 to 60 months. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 57,157 $ 71,013 Cost of revenue 20,450 25,095 Gross profit 36,707 45,918 Operating expenses: Research and development 24,466 16,583 Selling, general and administrative 10,893 9,010 Total operating expenses 35,359 25,593 Income from operations 1,348 20,325 Other income 27 27 Income before income taxes 1,375 20,352 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (408 ) 1,498 Net income $ 1,783 $ 18,854 The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 36 35 Gross profit 64 65 Operating expenses: Research and development 43 23 Selling, general and administrative 19 13 Total operating expenses 62 36 Income from operations 2 29 Other income (loss), net Income before income taxes 2 29 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1 ) 2 Net income 3 % 27 % 23 Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD video and image processing SoC solutions to OEMs and ODMs, either directly or through our logistics providers. Our SoC solutions have been used in the camera and infrastructure markets, although we expect the camera market will be the primary market for our solutions for the foreseeable future as the infrastructure market continues to decline due to delays in investments in network upgrades. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through our logistics provider, Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech, and directly to one large ODM customer, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony. We typically experience seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the highest revenue quarter. This fluctuation has been driven primarily by increased sales in the camera market as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. More generally, our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as more specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and testing, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. We believe that our gross margin will decline in the future as we continue to penetrate the highly competitive camera market. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling expense to increase in absolute dollars as we expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our anticipated growth. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure necessary to operate as a public company, which includes increased audit and legal fees, costs to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, investor relations costs, and higher insurance premiums. Other Income Other income consists primarily of interest income from investment and net of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. 24 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. As such, our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit; by transfer pricing adjustments and by tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have experienced lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure was to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 57,157 $ 71,013 $ (13,856 ) (19.5 )% The decreased revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was primarily due to significant revenue decline in the wearable sports camera market as a result of continued high inventory levels at a major customer. We anticipate that these high inventory levels at our customer will continue to adversely impact our revenue in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decline in revenue from the wearable sports camera market was partially offset by strong growth in the UAV and home security and monitoring markets. In the professional IP security market, we experienced a decline in revenues from customers located in the China region in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 due to continuing macroeconomic weakness, which offset stronger growth in other geographic regions in the period. In the automotive aftermarket, which is dominated by demand from Asia, revenue was down moderately in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 primarily due to slowing revenues in China. For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the infrastructure market was flat sequentially due to the continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as system manufacturers continue to delay investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 video compression technology. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 20,450 $ 25,095 $ (4,645 ) (18.5 )% Gross profit 36,707 45,918 (9,211 ) (20.1 )% Gross margin 64.2 % 64.7 % (0.5 )% Cost of revenue decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2016 primarily due to decreased revenue. The decrease was also attributable to cost reductions received from suppliers for certain SoCs that reached lifetime purchase volume milestones. 25 Gross margin decreased slightly for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a higher percentage of revenues associated with shipments of lower margin S2L SoC into the price competitive IP security camera market in Asia. The decreased gross margin was partially offset by increased revenue associated with shipments of higher margin A9 and H1S SoCs into the UAV market. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 24,466 $ 16,583 $ 7,883 47.5 % Research and development expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to increases in engineering headcount and SoC development costs. Our research and development engineering headcount increased to 459 at April 30, 2016 compared to 381 at April 30, 2015, which included 33 employees added as a result of the acquisition of VisLab, S.r.l., or VisLab, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2016. The increased engineering headcount resulted in an increase in salary related expenses of approximately $2.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increase was also attributable to additional stock-based compensation of approximately $3.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as a result of the issuance of options, restricted stock and restricted stock units for newly hired employees, our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees and the increase in the fair market value of our ordinary shares. SoC development costs increased by approximately $1.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 10,893 $ 9,010 $ 1,883 20.9 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to increased stock-based compensation. Stock-based compensation increased by approximately $2.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as a result of the issuance of options, restricted stock and restricted stock units for newly hired employees, our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees and the increase in the fair market value of our ordinary shares. Our selling, general and administrative headcount increased to 162 at April 30, 2016 compared to 147 at April 30, 2015, resulting in a small increase in salary related expenses of approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of approximately $0.2 million for outside professional services for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The higher outside professional service expense in the three months ended April 30, 2015 was primarily due to legal expenses to support the VisLab acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal year 2016. Other Income Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income $ 27 $ 27 $ 0% Other income consisted primarily of interest income from debt security investments and net of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2016 2015 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (408 ) $ 1,498 $ (1,906 ) (127.2 )% Effective tax rate (29.7)% 7.4 % (37.1)% 26 The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimation of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. The decrease in tax expense and in the effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to an approximately $19.0 million decrease in pre-tax income for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, combined with $0.6 million of discrete tax benefits recorded for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 30, 2016 were largely related to a change in the U.S. federal tax rate at which our deferred taxes are expected to reverse and tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions following our early adoption of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2016 and January 31, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $323.8 million and $307.9 million, respectively. We invested in highly liquid, short-term marketable securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of April 30, 2016, these securities had a fair value of approximately $60.5 million with insignificant unrealized gains caused by fluctuations in market value and interest rates. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,550 $ 24,793 Net cash used in investing activities (16,562 ) (832 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 915 3,059 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (97 ) $ 27,020 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2016 primarily due to decreased net income as adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation. The decrease also was attributable to decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers and decreased deferred revenue associated with the timing of inventory shipments by our logistics providers. The decrease was partially offset by decreased accounts receivable associated with the timing of payments from customers and decreased inventory purchases associated with a decrease in near term revenue forecasts. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to an additional $20.0 million investment in debt securities for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015. The increase was partially offset by the receipt of approximately $5.9 million more cash from the partial sale and maturity of debt securities compared to the same period of last fiscal year. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to decreased option exercises. The decrease was also attributable to excess income tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation being classified as cash flows from operating activities upon adoption of ASU 2019-06, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. 27 Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements We have generated net income in each quarter beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, and we have generated cash from operations in each of fiscal years 2009 to 2016 and for the three months ended April 30, 2016. We believe that our anticipated cash generated from operations and our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. We expect our accounts receivable and inventory balances to increase, and could be partially offset by increases in accounts payable, which will result in a greater need for working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of April 30, 2016: Payment Due by Period as of April 30, 2016 (in thousands) Less than More than All Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years Other Contractual Obligations Facilities under operating leases $ 7,596 $ 1,693 $ 3,857 $ 2,046 $ $ Technology license or other obligations under operating leases 3,286 3,042 244 Purchase obligations 21,123 21,123 Uncertain tax liabilities 1,401 1,401 Total $ 33,406 $ 25,858 $ 4,101 $ 2,046 $ $ 1,401 As of April 30, 2016, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $21.1 million. Uncertain tax liabilities represent our potential liabilities related to these uncertain tax positions as of April 30, 2016. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2016, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 28 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estim ates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2016 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 25, 2016.