ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2024 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 29, 2024. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity and our ability to compete in such markets, our product strategy, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our repurchase programs, our expectations about taxes, operating expenses, and cost recognition, the availability of third-party components and economic and political conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; risks associated with the overall economy, including higher inflation and escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs and preferences of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate or seek to operate; our expectations regarding artificial intelligence and computer vision; our ability to effectively generate and manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, and Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of low-power system-on-a-chip, or SoC, semiconductors providing powerful artificial intelligence, processing, advanced image signal processing and high-resolution video compression. Since inception, we have primarily served human viewing applications with video and image processors for enterprise, public infrastructure and home applications, such as internet protocol, or IP, security cameras, sports cameras, wearables, aerial drones, and aftermarket automotive video recorders. Our recent development efforts have focused on creating advanced artificial intelligence, or AI, technology that enables edge devices to visually perceive the environment and make decisions based on the data collected from cameras and, most recently, other types of sensors. This category of AI technology is known as computer vision (CV) or edge inference AI, and our CV SoCs integrate our state-of-the-art video processor technology together with our deep learning neural network processing technology, which we refer to as CVflow. The CVflow-architecture supports a variety of CV algorithms, including object detection, classification and tracking, semantic and instance segmentation, image processing, stereo object detection, and terrain mapping. CVflow can process other sensor modalities including lidar and radar, and allows customers to differentiate their products by porting their own, or third-party, neural networks and/or classical CV algorithms to our CVflow-based SoCs. Our latest third generation CVflow technology enables us to address incremental and computationally intense AI applications for deep fusion, deep planning, and large language models (LLMs), as well as efficiently process transformer AI networks. Our SoC designs fully integrate AI and CV functionality, high-definition, or HD, video processing, image processing, audio processing, and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality at high compression rates, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. These CV-based technologies are allowing us to address a broader range of markets and applications requiring AI video features, including IP security cameras, a variety of automotive cameras, consumer cameras, and industrial and robotic applications. We anticipate that our CV technology will also enable us to capture more content per electronic system and increase our average selling price. 20 Our development efforts are focused on SoCs that provide human viewing, computer vision and radar detection functionalities. As a result, we believe that our future revenue growth, if any, will significantly depend upon our ability to expand within camera markets with our computer vision technology, particularly in the Internet of Things, or IoT, markets, as well as emerging markets such as AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications, including driver monitoring systems, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, and deep learning algorithms for HD mapping solutions, automotive advanced driver assistance systems, or ADAS, applications, and industrial and robotics markets. We expect our research and development expenditures to increase in comparison to prior periods as we devote additional resources to the development of innovative video and image processing solutions with increased functionality, such as AI and CV capabilities, and as we target new markets. We sell our SoC solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally, and in the automotive market, we also sell to Tier-1 suppliers. We refer to ODMs and Tier-1 automotive suppliers as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management and our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM or Tier-1 supplier on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within 9 to 18 months after a design win, but could be longer in certain markets, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. In general, design cycles will be longer in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets than in the IoT markets. Once our solutions have been incorporated into a customers design, they are likely to be used for the life cycle of the customers product. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. An IoT product typically has a life cycle of 6 to 24 months. We anticipate that product life cycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets, as new product introductions occur less frequently in these markets. Financial Highlights We recorded revenue of $82.7 million and $200.9 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, respectively. This represented an increase of 63.4% and 14.9%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The increases in revenue were primarily attributable to higher product unit shipments driven by customers' new product ramps, an increased percentage of our sales from higher value AI inference processors which contribute to a higher average selling price, as well as higher nonrecurring engineering (NRE) project service revenue. For the nine months ended October 31, 2024, the increased revenue was partially offset by lower video processor product unit shipments. We recorded operating losses of $25.5 million and $101.2 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, respectively, as compared to operating losses of $42.0 million and $112.8 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2023, respectively. The reduced operating losses were primarily attributable to higher revenue and improved gross margin, partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increased operating expenses primarily related to higher engineering-related expenses associated with the development progress and an increase in number of chips in development. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $8.4 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to $23.1 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2023. The lower cash flows from operating activities were primarily attributable to lower net cash flow from working capital, including lower collections of accounts receivable associated with the timing of sales and increased inventory purchases based on expected future demand from customers, partially offset by reduced net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items. Factors Affecting Our Performance 21 Ability to Capitalize on AI and Computer Vision Trends. We expect that AI and computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced AI and computer vision technologies, enable and support customer product development in emerging applications, such as ADAS, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, classification and tracking, people recognition, retail analytics, and machine learning, and gain customer acceptance of our technology platform and solutions will be critical to our future success. Moreover, achieving design wins, particularly for computer vision-centric applications in the IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets, is vital to our ability to generate revenue growth. As such, we closely monitor our design wins with our customers. However, a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it does result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Ability to Develop and Introduce New or Enhanced Solutions. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell enhanced solutions with increased levels of performance and functionality that meet the expectations of our customers, including advanced process technologies. As such, we continuously invest in our research and development projects, especially AI and computer vision technologies. However, failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced solutions in response to technology shifts and trends could result in decreased revenue and our competitors achieving design wins we sought. Moreover, any reliability or quality problems with our solutions could harm our reputation, increase additional development and replacement costs, and prevent us from retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin. Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera applications or, in the future, advanced driver assistance systems, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower-performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products by us or our competitors. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market. Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets and we developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets as they emerged. Since fiscal year 2018, the IoT markets and automotive markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. We believe, however, that continued expansion into new markets is required to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. We have recently introduced solutions to address emerging applications and markets, such as the incorporation of AI and computer vision functionalities for AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications and industrial and robotics markets. While we will continue to seek to expand our end market exposure, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our concentration in a limited number of markets may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Sales Volume. A typical design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses, our end customers ability to sell their products, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle. 22 Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. We typically commence commercial shipments from 9 to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, lengthier product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project, such as in the automotive market. An IoT product typically has a product life cycle of 6 to 24 months. We anticipate that product development and product life cycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive, Tier-1 automotive suppliers and robotics markets, as new product introductions typically occur less frequently in these markets. Impact of Global Supply Chain Conditions on Our Business.Due in part to impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the semiconductor industry faced significant global supply chain challenges over the past few years.Supply chain issues can impact our business as they relate to both our suppliers and our customers. With respect to our suppliers, we have experienced supply constraints for certain chips from Samsung Electronics Corporation and we may in the future experience similar issues. With respect to our customers, to the extent customers face supply chain issues with other components needed to pair with our products in order to produce their end products, such customers may delay future orders of our products or hold inventory of our products for longer periods of time. Recent supply chain challenges have substantially subsided and we expect conditions to return to more stability in future periods. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Revenue $ 82,653 $ 50,595 $ 200,850 $ 174,858 Cost of revenue 32,605 20,612 78,901 68,894 Gross profit 50,048 29,983 121,949 105,964 Operating expenses: Research and development 58,389 53,702 169,286 163,060 Selling, general and administrative 17,169 18,246 53,905 55,750 Total operating expenses 75,558 71,948 223,191 218,810 Loss from operations (25,510 ) (41,965 ) (101,242 ) (112,846 ) Other income, net 2,091 1,900 6,507 3,923 Loss before income taxes (23,419 ) (40,065 ) (94,735 ) (108,923 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 652 1,645 2,157 (113 ) Net loss $ (24,071 ) $ (41,710 ) $ (96,892 ) $ (108,810 ) The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 100 % Cost of revenue 39 41 39 39 Gross profit 61 59 61 61 Operating expenses: Research and development 71 106 84 93 Selling, general and administrative 21 36 27 32 Total operating expenses 92 142 111 125 Loss from operations (31 ) (83 ) (50 ) (64 ) Other income, net 3 4 3 2 Loss before income taxes (28 ) (79 ) (47 ) (62 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 3 1 Net loss (29 ) % (82 ) % (48 ) % (62 ) % Revenue 23 We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD and Ultra HD video and image processing SoC solutions to IoT OEMs, IoT ODMs, automotive OEMs or Tier-1 automotive suppliers, either directly or through our distributors. A substantial portion of our revenue from sales was made indirectly through our two major distributors, WT Microelectronics Co., Ltd., formerly Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or WT, which serves as our non-exclusive sales representative and fulfillment partner in Asia other than Japan, and Hakuto Co., Ltd., or Hakuto, a Japanese distributor, and from one ODM, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony, which manufactures devices incorporating our solutions on behalf of multiple end-customers. Our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our AI and CV-based solutions generally have higher selling prices than our traditional video and image processing SoC solutions that do not enable AI or CV functionality. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition and timing of our revenue may change in future periods. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as AI and computer vision specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials, such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly, testing and manufacturing support operations, such as logistics, planning and quality assurance, as well as personnel costs (including stock-based compensation) related to project service agreements. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs, such as inventory valuation reserves, adverse purchase commitment reserves, facility cost allocations, amortization of developed technology and software licenses, warranty and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in customer mix, average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras, and in future advanced automotive OEM applications, have had or are expected to have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower-performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. Research and Development Research and development expense primarily consists of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, costs of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, the cost and depreciation of equipment, outside services as well as allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to generally increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development and development of computer vision technology. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense primarily consists of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes amortization of trade name and customer relationships, professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. Other Income, Net Other income, net, primarily consists of interest income and yields from our cash deposits and debt security investments, realized gains and losses from equity and debt security investments, subsidies granted by foreign governments, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. 24 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several locations such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea, Germany, and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates, and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended October 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 82,653 $ 50,595 $ 32,058 63.4 % $ 200,850 $ 174,858 $ 25,992 14.9 % Revenue increased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher product unit shipments driven by customers' new product ramps, an increased percentage of our sales from higher value AI inference processors which contribute to a higher average selling price, as well as higher nonrecurring engineering (NRE) project service revenue. For the nine months ended October 31, 2024, the increased revenue was partially offset by lower video processor product unit shipments. Gross Margin Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Gross margin 60.6 % 59.3 % 1.3 % 60.7 % 60.6 % 0.1 % Gross margin increased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to favorable product mix, increased higher margin NRE project service revenue, as well as lower net inventory reserve. For the nine months ended October 31, 2024, the gross margin was also positively impacted by higher sales of inventory that was previously reserved. The increased gross margin for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024 were partially offset by higher manufacturing costs associated with advanced process technologies. Research and Development Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 58,389 $ 53,702 $ 4,687 8.7 % $ 169,286 $ 163,060 $ 6,226 3.8 % Research and development expense increased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $2.9 million and $5.0 million, respectively, of additional engineering-related expenses associated with the development progress and an increase in number of chips in development. Personnel costs for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024 increased by approximately $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, as a result of higher headcount in support of our AI technology development activities. 25 Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 17,169 $ 18,246 $ (1,077 ) (5.9 )% $ 53,905 $ 55,750 $ (1,845 ) (3.3 )% Selling, general and administrative expense decreased for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower personnel costs of approximately $1.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively, as a result of lower headcount. Other Income, Net Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 2,091 $ 1,900 $ 191 10.1 % $ 6,507 $ 3,923 $ 2,584 65.9 % The increase in other income, net, for the three months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to an approximately $0.2 million subsidy received from a foreign government. The increase in other income, net, for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to an approximately $1.2 million impairment charge relating to an equity investment recognized in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024 that did not recur in the current fiscal year, as well as approximately $1.1 million of additional interest income and yields from our cash deposits and debt security investments and $0.4 million net gains from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended October 31, Change Nine Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 652 $ 1,645 $ (993 ) (60.4) % $ 2,157 $ (113 ) $ 2,270 (2008.8) % Effective tax rate (2.8) % (4.1) % 1.3 % (2.3) % 0.1 % (2.4) % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimate of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in the quarter. The decrease in income tax expense for the three months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to a decrease in the proportion of profits generated in higher tax jurisdictions. The increase in income tax expense for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to tax benefit from the release of $3.6 million of valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of Oculii Corp, or Oculii, in the prior fiscal year that did not recur in the current fiscal year. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of October 31, 2024, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $226.5 million. We invest in highly-liquid, short-term marketable debt securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. Refer to Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The current inflationary environment in the United States and resulting higher interest rates have not had a material impact on our investment portfolio and financial position. 26 Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Nine Months Ended October 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,406 $ 23,056 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (30,060 ) 5,052 Net cash provided by financing activities 3,862 2,137 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (17,792 ) $ 30,245 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower net cash flow from working capital, including lower collections of accounts receivable associated with the timing of sales and increased inventory purchases based on expected future demand from customers, partially offset by reduced net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $39.0 million of additional net cash payments for our marketable debt security investments, partially offset by $3.9 million less in payments for the purchase of capital assets and licenses. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased for the nine months ended October 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $2.7 million higher cash receipts from stock activities, partially offset by approximately $1.0 million higher principal payments associated with long-term software license agreements. Share Repurchase Program On May 29, 2024, our Board of Directors approved an extension of our existing share repurchase program for an additional twelve months through June 30, 2025. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at our discretion. No ordinary shares were repurchased during the nine months ended October 31, 2024. As of October 31, 2024, there was approximately $49.0 million remaining available for repurchases under the current repurchase program through June 30, 2025. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we may require more working capital to meet our operating and capital expenditure needs. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Manufacturing Purchase Obligations As of October 31, 2024, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $51.4 million. Leases 27 In the second quarter of fiscal year 2025, we extended our Shanghai, Shenzhen and Italy office leases for an additional 36 months, 28 months and 22 months, respectively, with the earliest such extension commencing in July 2024 and the latest end date in November 2027. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2025, we also extended a facility lease in Santa Clara, California for an additional 24 months beginning from October 2024 to September 2026. The corresponding operating right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities have been recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of October 31, 2024. As of October 31, 2024, the total estimated future undiscounted cash payments for the extensions are approximately $3.6 million. Refer to Note 7 Leases of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details of these extended leases. Commitments During fiscal year 2025, we entered into a noncancellable service contract with a third-party for our IT infrastructure service and committed to purchase a noncancelable on-premise internal-use software license for product design. As of October 31, 2024, the estimated future undiscounted cash payments for the commitments were approximately $8.0 million and are expected to be paid between twelve months to sixty-one months from October 31, 2024. Except as described above, there were no other material changes in our contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2024, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2024 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 29, 2024.