ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2023 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 31, 2023. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity and our ability to compete in such markets, our product strategy, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our repurchase programs, our expectations about taxes, operating expenses, and cost recognition, the availability of third-party components and economic and political conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; risks associated with the overall economy, including higher inflation and escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs and preferences of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate or seek to operate; our expectations regarding computer vision; our ability to effectively generate and manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, and Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of low-power system-on-a-chip, or SoC, semiconductors providing powerful artificial intelligence, or AI, processing, advanced image signal processing and high-resolution video compression. Since inception, we have primarily served human viewing applications with video and image processors for enterprise, public infrastructure and home applications, such as internet protocol, or IP, security cameras, sports cameras, wearables, aerial drones, and aftermarket automotive video recorders. Our recent development efforts have focused on creating advanced AI technology that enables edge devices to visually perceive the environment and make decisions based on the data collected from cameras and, most recently, other types of sensors. This category of AI technology is known as computer vision, or CV, and our CV SoCs integrate our state-of-the-art video processor technology together with our deep learning neural network processing technology, which we refer to as CVflow. The CVflow-architecture supports a variety of CV algorithms, including object detection, classification and tracking, semantic and instance segmentation, image processing, stereo object detection, terrain mapping, and face recognition. CVflow can process other sensor modalities including lidar and radar, and allows customers to differentiate their products by porting their own, or third party, neural networks and/or classical CV algorithms to our CVflow-based SoCs. Our SoC designs fully integrate AI, computer vision functionality, high-definition, or HD, video processing, image processing, audio processing, and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality at high compression rates, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. These CV-based technologies are allowing us to address a broader range of markets and applications requiring AI video features, including IP security cameras, a variety of automotive cameras, consumer cameras, and industrial and robotic applications. We anticipate that our CV technology will also enable us to capture more content per electronic system and increase our average selling price. 19 Our development efforts are focused on SoCs that provide human viewing, computer vision and radar detection functionalities. As a result, we believe that our future revenue growth, if any, will significantly depend upon our ability to expand within camera markets with our AI and computer vision technology, particularly in the Internet of Things, or IoT, markets, as well as emerging markets such as AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications, including driver monitoring systems, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, and deep learning algorithms for HD mapping solutions, automotive advanced driver assistance systems, or ADAS, applications, and industrial and robotics markets. We expect our research and development expenditures to increase in comparison to prior periods as we devote additional resources to the development of innovative video and image processing solutions with increased functionality, such as AI and CV capabilities, and as we target new markets. We sell our SoC solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally, and in the automotive market, we also sell to Tier-1 suppliers. We refer to ODMs and Tier-1 automotive suppliers as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our customers system designers and management and our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM or Tier-1 supplier on behalf of the OEM. Volume production may begin within 9 to 18 months after a design win, but could be longer in certain markets, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. In general, design cycles will be longer in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets than in the IoT markets. Once our solutions have been incorporated into a customers design, they are likely to be used for the life cycle of the customers product. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor will likely preclude any opportunity for future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. An IoT product typically has a life cycle of 6 to 24 months. We anticipate that product lifecycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive and industrial and robotics markets, as new product introductions occur less frequently in these markets. Financial Highlights We recorded revenue of $62.1 million and $124.3 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, respectively. This represented decreases of 23.2% and 27.4%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The decreases in revenue were primarily attributable to lower product unit shipments as a result of customer inventory level reduction efforts, as well as lower nonrecurring engineering (NRE) project services due to the timing of completion of project milestones. The decreased revenues from lower product shipments were partially offset by continued adoption of our CV-based solutions, which have higher average selling prices than non-CV solutions. We recorded operating losses of $35.3 million and $70.9 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, respectively, as compared to operating losses of $20.2 million and $30.7 million for the three and six months ended July 31, 2022, respectively. The increased operating losses were primarily due to decreased revenue and gross profit, as well as increased operating expenses. The increased operating expenses primarily related to higher personnel costs, higher chip tape-out costs due to the timing of projects and the number of chips in development, and increased engineering-related expenses for supporting our CV-based vision and radar solutions in the IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $15.2 million for the six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to $33.0 million for the six months ended July 31, 2022. The lower cash flows from operating activities were primarily attributable to increased net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, partially offset by higher collections of accounts receivable associated with the timing of sales and decreased inventory purchases due to lower demand from customers. Factors Affecting Our Performance 20 Impact of Global Economic Conditions on Our Business. Uncertainty in customer demand as well as the worldwide economy, in general, have continued as a result of macroeconomic factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, high inflation and global banking uncertainty. As a result, we may experience increased volatility in our sales and revenues in the near future, primarily owing to uncertainty around demand for semiconductor products in general. Some customers have indicated they are reducing their inventory levels, as some component lead times contract toward normal levels, which has reduced and may continue to reduce demand for our products. Uncertain market demand may be exacerbating these customers inventory reduction efforts. The magnitude and duration of such volatility is uncertain and thus its impact on our business cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Global supply shortages that arose as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to slow the spread of the virus continue to subside, but could occur again in the future. Supply chain issues can impact our business as they relate to both our suppliers and our customers. With respect to our suppliers, we have in the past experienced supply constraints for certain chips from Samsung Electronics Corporation and we may in the future experience similar issues. With respect to our customers, to the extent customers face supply chain issues with other components needed to pair with our products in order to produce their end products, such customers may delay future orders of our products or hold inventory of our products for longer periods of time. Ability to Capitalize on AI and Computer Vision Trends. We expect that AI and computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced AI computer vision technology, enable and support customer product development in emerging applications, such as ADAS, advanced blind spot detection, object detection, classification and tracking, people recognition, retail analytics, and machine learning, and gain customer acceptance of our technology platform and solutions will be critical to our future success. Moreover, achieving design wins, particularly for computer vision-centric applications in the IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets, is vital to our ability to generate revenue growth. As such, we closely monitor design wins by our customers. However, a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it does result in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Ability to Develop and Introduce New or Enhanced Solutions. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell enhanced solutions with increased levels of performance and functionality that meet the expectations of our customers. As such, we continuously invest in our research and development projects, especially AI and computer vision technologies. However, failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced solutions in response to technology shifts and trends could result in decreased revenue and our competitors achieving design wins we sought. Moreover, any reliability or quality problems with our solutions could harm our reputation, increase additional development and replacement costs, and prevent us from retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin. Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera applications or, in the future, advanced driver assistance systems, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower-performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products by us or our competitors. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market. Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets and we developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets as they emerged. Since fiscal year 2018, the IoT markets and automotive markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. We believe, however, that continued expansion into new markets is required to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. We have recently introduced solutions to address emerging applications and markets, such as the incorporation of AI and computer vision functionalities for AI-enabled security cameras, AI-based driving applications and industrial and robotics markets. While we will continue to seek to expand our end market exposure, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our limited market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. 21 Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity Trends. Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We incorporate wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, aerial drone and automotive video recorder cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and aerial drone cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. Sales Volume. A typical design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses, our end customers ability to sell their products, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. In certain cases, we may provide volume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle. Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. We typically commence commercial shipments from 9 to 18 months following a design win; however, in some markets, lengthier product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project, such as in the automotive market. An IoT product typically has a product life cycle of 6 to 24 months. We anticipate that product development and product life cycles will typically be longer than 24 months in the OEM automotive, Tier-1 automotive suppliers and robotics markets, as new product introductions typically occur less frequently in these markets. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Revenue $ 62,121 $ 80,884 $ 124,263 $ 171,189 Cost of revenue 23,659 29,820 48,282 63,578 Gross profit 38,462 51,064 75,981 107,611 Operating expenses: Research and development 54,917 52,338 109,358 99,028 Selling, general and administrative 18,884 18,914 37,504 39,269 Total operating expenses 73,801 71,252 146,862 138,297 Loss from operations (35,339 ) (20,188 ) (70,881 ) (30,686 ) Other income (expense), net 737 (26 ) 2,023 60 Loss before income taxes (34,602 ) (20,214 ) (68,858 ) (30,626 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (3,404 ) 3,436 (1,758 ) 3,846 Net loss $ (31,198 ) $ (23,650 ) $ (67,100 ) $ (34,472 ) 22 The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, Six Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 38 37 39 37 Gross profit 62 63 61 63 Operating expenses: Research and development 88 65 88 58 Selling, general and administrative 30 23 30 23 Total operating expenses 118 88 118 81 Loss from operations (56 ) (25 ) (57 ) (18 ) Other income (expense), net 1 2 Loss before income taxes (55 ) (25 ) (55 ) (18 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5 ) 4 (1 ) 2 Net loss (50 ) % (29 ) % (54 ) % (20 ) % Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD and Ultra HD video and image processing SoC solutions to IoT OEMs, IoT ODMs, automotive OEMs or Tier-1 automotive suppliers, either directly or through our distributors. In recent years, our SoC solutions have been primarily used in IoT camera markets, such as IP security, automotive video recorder, drone and wearable cameras. Although we expect these human viewing camera markets to continue to generate revenue for the foreseeable future, we have recently introduced new SoCs targeting emerging AI and computer vision applications in the IoT, automotive, industrial and robotics markets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through one of our distributors, WT Microelectronics Co., Ltd., formerly Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or WT, which serves as our non-exclusive sales representative and fulfillment partner in Asia other than Japan, and to one ODM, Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd., or Chicony, which manufactures devices incorporating our solutions on behalf of multiple end-customers. Our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our CV-based solutions generally have higher selling prices than our traditional video and image processing SoC solutions that do not enable CV functionality. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels. The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition and timing of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as AI and computer vision specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials, such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly, testing and manufacturing support operations, such as logistics, planning and quality assurance, as well as personnel costs (including stock-based compensation) related to project service agreements. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs, such as inventory valuation reserves, adverse purchase commitment reserves, facility cost allocations, amortization of developed technology and software licenses, warranty and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in customer mix, average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras, and in future advanced automotive OEM applications, have had or are expected to have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower-performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. 23 Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, costs of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, the cost and depreciation of equipment, outside services as well as allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development and development of computer vision technology. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes amortization of trade name and customer relationships, professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling, general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure and expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our business strategy of addressing new opportunities with our computer vision technology. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and yields from our cash deposits and debt security investments, subsidies granted by foreign governments, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several locations such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea, Germany, and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates, and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure were to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision for income taxes and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of uncertain tax position reserves and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended July 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 62,121 $ 80,884 $ (18,763 ) (23.2 )% $ 124,263 $ 171,189 $ (46,926 ) (27.4 )% 24 Revenue decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower product unit shipments as a result of customer inventory level reduction efforts, as well as lower NRE project services due to the timing of completion of project milestones. The decreased revenues from lower product shipments were partially offset by continued adoption of our CV-based solutions, which have higher average selling prices than non-CV solutions. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 23,659 $ 29,820 $ (6,161 ) (20.7 )% $ 48,282 $ 63,578 $ (15,296 ) (24.1 )% Gross profit 38,462 51,064 (12,602 ) (24.7 )% 75,981 107,611 (31,630 ) (29.4 )% Gross margin 61.9 % 63.1 % (1.2 )% 61.1 % 62.9 % (1.8 )% Cost of revenue decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower product unit shipments associated with lower revenue, as well as a reversal of adverse purchase commitments recognized in prior periods as a result of favorable changes in contract terms. The decreases were partially offset by increased inventory reserves caused by market weakness and lower demand from customers. Gross margin decreased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to unfavorable product mix, increased inventory reserves and lower NRE project services, partially offset by a reversal of adverse purchase commitments recognized in prior periods as a result of favorable changes in contract terms. Research and Development Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 54,917 $ 52,338 $ 2,579 4.9 % $ 109,358 $ 99,028 $ 10,330 10.4 % Research and development expense increased for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased personnel costs, SoC development cost and engineering-related expenses. Personnel costs increased by approximately $2.0 million and $3.8 million, respectively, as a result of higher stock-based compensation expense and headcount growth. SoC development cost increased by approximately $0.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively, due to the timing of projects and the number of chips in development. Engineering-related expenses, including the cost and depreciation of equipment and tools, outside services and facility expenses in support of new SoCs and related applications, increased by approximately $0.2 million and $2.2 million, respectively, due to the timing of project progress. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 18,884 $ 18,914 $ (30 ) (0.2 )% $ 37,504 $ 39,269 $ (1,765 ) (4.5 )% Selling, general and administrative expense remained relatively flat for the three months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower administrative expense, offset by increased traveling and marketing expense. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense for the six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was primarily attributable to approximately $1.7 million of additional stock-based compensation expense associated with a stock acceleration in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 that did not recur in fiscal year 2024, as well as $1.2 million of lower administrative expense, partially offset by approximately $0.7 million of additional traveling and marketing expense and $0.4 million of additional personnel cost. 25 Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 737 $ (26 ) $ 763 (2,934.6 )% $ 2,023 $ 60 $ 1,963 3,271.7 % The increases in other income, net, for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, were primarily due to $1.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, of additional yields from our debt security investments that were resumed in the second half of fiscal year 2023. The increases were also attributable to approximately $0.7 million and $1.0 million of additional interest income from our cash deposits driven by higher interest rates. The increases were partially offset by an approximately $1.2 million impairment relating to an equity investment recognized during the second quarter of fiscal year 2024. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended July 31, Change Six Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (3,404 ) $ 3,436 $ (6,840 ) (199.1 ) % $ (1,758 ) $ 3,846 $ (5,604 ) (145.7 ) % Effective tax rate 9.8 % (17.0) % 26.8 % 2.6 % (12.6) % 15.2 % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimate of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in the quarter. The decreases in income tax expense for the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, were primarily due to the tax benefit from the release of $3.6 million of valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of Oculii Corp, or Oculii, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2024 and recording a tax benefit of $3.1 million for Oculiis losses in fiscal year 2024. The decrease in income tax expense for the six months ended July 31, 2023 was partially offset by an increase in the proportion of profits generated in higher tax jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July 31, 2023 and January 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of approximately $216.5 million and $206.9 million, respectively. We invest in highly-liquid, short-term marketable debt securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of July 31, 2023, these securities had a fair value of approximately $102.9 million with unrealized losses of approximately $1.0 million caused by market fluctuations. For the three and six months ended July 31, 2023, there was approximately $1.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, of interest and other income related to the debt security investments recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The current inflationary environment in the United States and resulting high interest rates have not had material impact on our investment portfolio and financial position. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Six Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,187 $ 33,003 Net cash used in investing activities (7,969 ) (10,311 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,756 1,209 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 8,974 $ 23,901 26 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased for the six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily attributable to increased net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, partially offset by higher collections of accounts receivable associated with the timing of sales and decreased inventory purchases due to lower demand from customers. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased for the six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $2.7 million of net cash receipts from our debt security investments and $0.4 million less in payments for purchase of property, equipment and licenses, partially offset by a $0.7 million claim from an acquisition escrow account in fiscal year 2023 that did not recur in fiscal year 2024. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased for the six months ended July 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to approximately $1.1 million of additional cash proceeds from option exercises and employee stock purchase withholdings, partially offset by an additional $0.5 million payment for the purchase of licenses. Stock Repurchase Program No ordinary shares were repurchased during the three and six months ended July 31, 2023. On May 26, 2023, our Board of Directors approved an extension of the existing share repurchase program for an additional twelve months through June 30, 2024. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As of July 31, 2023, there was approximately $49.0 million remaining available for repurchases under the repurchase program through June 30, 2024. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements As of July 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities on hand of approximately $216.5 million. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. As we expand our operations, we may require more working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders, and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities or borrowing funds commercially, we may become subject to covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- term and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the expansion of our research and development of new technologies and products to address new markets and applications; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; global economic and political conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, high inflation and trade restrictions, the impact of COVID-19, as well as effects of the measures implemented to control the spread of the virus; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Manufacturing Purchase Obligations 27 As of July 31, 2023, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $24.6 million. Intangible Assets During the six months ended July 31, 2023, we entered into several noncancelable on-premise internal-use software license agreements for product design. As of July 31, 2023, total estimated future undiscounted cash payments for these licenses were approximately $8.8 million, of which $4.2 million will be paid within 12 months and the remaining $4.6 million will be paid within 12 to 36 months. Except as described above, there were no other material changes in our contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of July 31, 2023, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2023 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 31, 2023.