ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 and managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2017 fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 30, 2017. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes a number of forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words would, could, will, may, expect, believe, should, anticipate, outlook, if, future, intend, plan, estimate, predict, potential, target, seek, project, forecast, continue or foreseeable and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our market opportunity, our ability to develop new solutions, our future financial and operating performance, our sales and marketing strategy, our investment strategy, research and development, our customer and supplier relationships and inventory levels, industry trends, our cash needs and capital requirements, our expectations about seasonality, taxes and operating expenses, the availability of third-party components and economic conditions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors include, but are not limited to: risks associated with revenue being generated from new customers or design wins, neither of which is assured; our ability to retain and expand customer relationships and to achieve design wins; the commercial success of our customers products; our growth strategy; our ability to anticipate future market demands and future needs of our customers; our ability to introduce new and enhanced solutions; the expansion of our current markets and our ability to successfully enter new markets; anticipated trends and challenges, including competition, in the markets in which we operate; our ability to effectively manage growth; our ability to retain key employees; the potential for intellectual property disputes or other litigation; the risks described under Item 1A of Part II Risk Factors, Item 2 of Part I Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; the risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. Overview We are a leading developer of semiconductor processing solutions for video that enable high-definition, or HD, video capture, analysis, sharing, and display. A device that captures video includes four primary components: a lens, an image sensor, a video processor and storage memory. The video processor converts raw video input into a format that can be stored, analyzed and distributed efficiently and, in some cases, analyzes the video data to automate processes. We combine our processor design capabilities with our expertise in video, image processing and computer vision algorithms and software to provide a technology platform that is designed to be easily scalable across multiple applications and enable rapid and efficient product development. Our system-on-a-chip, or SoC, designs fully integrate HD video processing, image processing and analysis, audio processing and system functions onto a single chip, delivering exceptional video and image quality, differentiated functionality and low power consumption. We sell our solutions to leading original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, globally. We refer to ODMs as our customers and OEMs as our end customers, except as otherwise indicated or as the context otherwise requires. In the camera market, our solutions enable the creation of high-quality video content in wearable cameras, automotive cameras, Internet Protocol, or IP, security cameras, for both professional use and home security and monitoring, unmanned aerial vehicle cameras, also referred to as UAVs, drones or flying cameras, and virtual reality cameras, also referred to as 360 cameras. In the infrastructure market, our solutions efficiently manage IP video traffic, broadcast encoding, transcoding and IP video delivery applications. We also intend to develop solutions to address new markets, such as OEM automotive and robotics markets. 21 Our sales cycles typically require a significant investment of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of our solutions, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development pro cess involving our customers system designers and management along with our sales personnel and software engineers. If successful, this process culminates in a customers decision to use our solutions in its system, which we refer to as a design win. Our sales efforts are typically directed to the OEM of the product that will incorporate our video and image processing solution, but the eventual design and incorporation of our SoC into the product may be handled by an ODM on behalf of the OEM. Volume produc tion may begin within six to 18 months after a design win, depending on the complexity of our customers product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. Once one of our solutions has been incorporated into a customers design, we b elieve that our solution is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning a product or substituting an alternative solution. Conversely, a design loss to a competitor w ill likely preclude any opportunity for us to generate future revenue from such customers product. Even if we obtain a design win and our SoC remains a component through the life cycle of a customers product, the volume and timing of actual sales of our SoCs to the customer depend upon the production, release and market acceptance of that product, none of which are within our control. Financial Highlights and Trends We recorded revenue of $64.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017. This represented an increase of 12.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increased revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2017 was primarily due to strong growth in the IP security and automotive camera markets. Both the professional and consumer IP security camera markets demonstrated strong growth, led by a solid performance from the China IP security camera market and the home security and monitoring camera market in the United States. In the automotive camera market, initial ramps in OEM automotive video recorders plus growth in shipments for the automotive aftermarket resulted in strong growth for the three months ended April 30, 2017. The increase in the quarter ended April 30, 2017 was also attributable to revenue growth in the non-sports wearable camera market, along with the initial shipments into the virtual reality camera market. The increase was partially offset by decreased revenue from the UAV camera market due to the timing of new product launches by customers. For the three months ended April 30, 2017, revenue from the infrastructure market continued to decline due to continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 video compression technology is delayed. We recorded operating income of $2.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, as compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by increased stock-based compensation expense, as well as increased research and development cost as a result of increased headcount associated with new SoC development, especially in computer vision technology for the automotive and other markets. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $23.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, as compared to $15.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increased cash flows from operating activities were primarily due to increased net income as a result of increased revenue, adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The increase was also attributable to increased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers, decreased inventory purchases and increased deferred revenue associated with the timing of inventory shipments by our logistics providers. The increase was partially offset by decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers. Our Board of Directors previously authorized the repurchase of up to $75.0 million of our ordinary shares under a repurchase program extending through June 30, 2017. During the three months ended April 30, 2017, we repurchased a total of 162,738 shares for approximately $8.8 million in cash. As of April 30, 2017, we had repurchased a total of 567,827 shares for approximately $29.0 million in cash. On May 31, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $50.0 million of our ordinary shares over a twelve-month period commencing July 1, 2017. Repurchases under the new program may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases or through privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The new repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at the company's discretion. Consistent with the existing repurchase program, the new program will be funded using working capital and any repurchased shares will be recorded as authorized but unissued shares. 22 Factors Affecting Our Performance Design Wins . We closely monitor design wins by customer and end market. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success, although a design win may not successfully materialize into revenue, and even if it results in revenue, the amount generated by each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers and internal estimations of customer demand factoring in the expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential. Our ability to accurately forecast demand, however, can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, miscalculations by our customers of their inventory requirements, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and fluctuating demand for our customers products. Pricing, Product Cost and Margin . Our pricing and margins depend on the volumes and features of the solutions we provide to our customers. Additionally, we make significant investments in new solutions for both cost improvements and new features that we expect to drive revenue and maintain margins. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance camera or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins as compared to solutions sold into lower performing, more competitive camera applications. Our average selling price can vary by market and application due to market-specific supply and demand, the maturation of products launched in previous years and the launch of new products. We continually monitor the cost of our solutions. As we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of our products, we maintain a close relationship with these suppliers to continually monitor production yields, component costs and design efficiencies. Shifting Consumer Preferences. Our revenue is subject to consumer preferences, regarding form factor and functionality, and how those preferences impact the video and image capture electronics that we support. For example, improved smartphone video capture capabilities, and the rapid adoption of smartphones by consumers, led to the decline of pocket video cameras aimed at the video and image capture market. The current video and image capture market is now characterized by a greater volume of more specialized video and image capture devices that are less likely to be replaced with smartphones, such as wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive cameras. This increasing specialization of video capture devices has changed our customer base and end markets and has impacted our revenue. In the future, we expect further changes in the market to continue to impact our business performance. Continued Concentration of Revenue by End Market . Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of end markets. In fiscal year 2010, the majority of our revenue came from the pocket video, camcorder and infrastructure markets. Since that time, we have developed technologies to provide solutions for new markets such as the wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive camera markets. We believe these new markets can continue to facilitate revenue growth and customer diversification. Since fiscal year 2013, the wearable sports and professional IP security camera markets have been our largest end markets and sales into these markets collectively generated the majority of our revenue. While we will continue to expand our end market exposure, such as to home security and monitoring, non-sports wearable, UAV, automotive, computer vision and virtual reality camera markets, we anticipate that sales to a limited number of end markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. In addition, several of these markets are characterized by high concentration among one or a few dominant OEMs. Our end market concentration may cause our financial performance to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the success or failure of products that our SoCs are designed into as well as the overall growth or decline in the video capture markets in which we compete. In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of ODMs who build products on behalf of a limited number of OEMs and from a limited number of OEMs to whom we ship directly. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Ability to Capitalize on Connectivity and Computer Vision Trends . Mobile connected devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in consumers lives. The constant connectivity provided by these devices has created a demand for connected electronic peripherals such as video and image capture devices. Our ability to capitalize on these trends by supporting our end customers in the development of connected peripherals that seamlessly cooperate with other connected devices and allow consumers to distribute and share video and images with online media platforms is critical for our success. We have added wireless communication functionality into our solutions for wearable, IP security, UAV and automotive cameras. The combination of our compression technology with wireless connectivity enables wireless video streaming and uploading of videos and images to the Internet. Our solutions enable IP security camera systems to stream video content to either cloud infrastructure or connected mobile devices, and our solutions for wearable and UAV cameras allow consumers to quickly stream or upload video and images to social media platforms. In addition, we expect that computer vision functionality will become an increasingly important requirement in many of our current and future markets, including IP security, wearable, UAV, automotive camera markets, and potentially robotics applications. As a result, we believe that our ability to develop advanced computer vision technology, and gain customer acceptance of our technology, will be critical to our future success. 23 Sales Volume . A typical camera design win that successfully launches into the marketplace can generate a wide range of sales volumes for our solutions, depending on the end market demand for our customers products. This ca n depend on several factors, including the reputation of the end customer, market penetration, product capabilities, size of the end market that the product addresses and our end customers ability to sell their products. In certain cases, we may provide v olume discounts on sales of our solutions, which may be offset by lower manufacturing costs related to higher volumes. In general, our customers with greater market penetration and better branding tend to develop products that generate larger volumes over the product life cycle . Customer Product Life Cycle. We estimate our customers product life cycles based on the customer, type of product and end market. In general, products launched in the camera market have shorter life cycles than those sold into the infrastructure market. We typically commence commercial shipments from six to 18 months following a design win, however, in some markets, lengthier product and development cycles are possible, depending on the scope and nature of the project. A portable consumer device typically has a product life cycle of six to 18 months. In the infrastructure market, the product life cycle can range from 24 to 60 months. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 64,135 $ 57,157 Cost of revenue 23,172 20,450 Gross profit 40,963 36,707 Operating expenses: Research and development 26,602 24,466 Selling, general and administrative 11,744 10,893 Total operating expenses 38,346 35,359 Income from operations 2,617 1,348 Other income 153 27 Income before income taxes 2,770 1,375 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 206 (408 ) Net income $ 2,564 $ 1,783 The following table sets forth operating results as a percentage of revenue of each line item for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 36 36 Gross profit 64 64 Operating expenses: Research and development 41 43 Selling, general and administrative 18 19 Total operating expenses 59 62 Income from operations 5 2 Other income Income before income taxes 5 2 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 (1 ) Net income 4 % 3 % Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of HD video and image processing SoC solutions to OEMs and ODMs, either directly or through our logistics providers. Our SoC solutions have been used in the camera and infrastructure markets, although we expect the camera market will be the primary market for our solutions for the foreseeable future as the infrastructure market continues to decline due to delays in investments in network upgrades. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made indirectly through our logistics provider, Wintech Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Wintech. 24 We typically experience seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly revenue with our third fiscal quarter normally being the highest revenue quarter. This fluctu ation has been driven primarily by increased sales in consumer camera markets as our customers build inventories in preparation for the holiday shopping season. More generally, our average selling prices fluctuate based on the mix of our solutions sold in a period which reflects the impact of both changes in unit sales of existing solutions as well as the introduction and sales of new solutions. Our solutions are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lowe r volumes, followed by broader market adoption, higher volumes and average selling prices that are lower than initial levels . The end markets into which we sell our products have seen significant changes as consumer preferences have evolved in response to new technologies. As a result, the composition of our revenue may differ meaningfully during periods of technology or consumer preference changes. We expect shifts in consumer use of video capture to continue to change over time, as more specialized use cases emerge and video capture continues to proliferate. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes the cost of materials such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly and testing, and our manufacturing support operations such as logistics, planning and quality assurance. Cost of revenue also includes indirect costs such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and other general overhead costs. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling price, product mix and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors. In general, solutions incorporated into more complex configurations, such as those used in high-performance cameras or infrastructure applications, have higher prices and higher gross margins, as compared to solutions sold into the lower performance, more competitive camera applications. As semiconductor products mature and unit volumes sold to customers increase, their average selling prices typically decline. These declines may be paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, packaging and test costs, which offset some of the margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. We believe that our gross margin will decline in the future as we continue to penetrate the highly competitive camera market. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. The expense also includes costs of development incurred in connection with our collaborations with our foundry vendors, costs of licensing intellectual property from third parties for product development, costs of development for software and hardware tools, cost of fabrication of mask sets for prototype products, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand our product features and offerings and increase headcount for new SoC development, especially in computer vision technology for the automotive and other markets. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for our sales, marketing, finance, human resources, information technology and administrative personnel. The expense also includes professional service costs related to accounting, tax, legal services, and allocated depreciation and facility expenses. We expect our selling, general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to maintain the infrastructure and expand the size of our sales and marketing organization to support our anticipated business growth. Other Income Other income consists primarily of interest income from investments and net gains or losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. 25 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We are incorporated and domiciled in the Cayman Islands and also conduct business in several countries such as the United States, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, South Korea and Japan, and we are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Our worldwide operating income is subject to varying tax rates and our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses and the tax laws and regulations in each geographical region. It is also subject to fluctuation from changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; tax benefits from excess stock-based compensation deductions; transfer pricing adjustments and the tax effects of nondeductible compensation. We have historically had lower effective tax rates as a substantial percentage of our operations are conducted in lower-tax jurisdictions. If our operational structure were to change in such a manner that would increase the amount of operating income subject to taxation in higher-tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and/or be adversely affected. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision for income taxes and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of uncertain tax position reserves and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 64,135 $ 57,157 $ 6,978 12.2 % The increased revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2017 was primarily due to strong growth in the IP security and automotive camera markets. Both the professional and consumer IP security camera markets demonstrated strong growth, led by a solid performance from the China IP security camera market and the home security and monitoring camera market in the United States. In the automotive camera market, initial ramps in OEM automotive video recorders plus growth in shipments for the automotive aftermarket resulted in strong growth for the three months ended April 30, 2017. The increase was also attributable to revenue growth in the non-sports wearable camera market, along with the initial shipments into the virtual reality camera market. The increase was partially offset by decreased revenue from the UAV camera market due to the timing of new product launches by customers. For the three months ended April 30, 2017, revenue from the infrastructure market continued to decline due to continued weak market conditions in the United States and Europe as investment in network upgrades to the new H.265 video compression technology is delayed. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 23,172 $ 20,450 $ 2,722 13.3 % Gross profit 40,963 36,707 4,256 11.6 % Gross margin 63.9 % 64.2 % (0.3 )% Cost of revenue increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 primarily due to increased revenue compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase was partially offset by cost reductions received from suppliers for certain SoCs that reached lifetime purchase volume milestones. 26 Gross margin decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in the percentage of our total revenue that was derived from the lower gross margin IP security camera market combined with the decline of revenue from the higher gross margin UAV camera market . Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 26,602 $ 24,466 $ 2,136 8.7 % Research and development expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in engineering headcount associated with new SoC development, especially in computer vision technology for the automotive and other markets. Our research and development engineering headcount increased to 493 at April 30, 2017 compared to 459 at April 30, 2016. The increased engineering headcount resulted in increases in salary related expenses of approximately $1.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017. The increased research and development expense was also attributable to additional stock-based compensation of approximately $1.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, as a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly hired employees and our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees. The increase was partially offset by approximately $0.3 million of reduced product development cost due to the timing and number of new SoCs in development. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 11,744 $ 10,893 $ 851 7.8 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.4 million, as a result of the issuance of options and restricted stock units for newly hired employees and our annual evergreen stock program for existing employees. The increase was also attributable to approximately $0.2 million of additional expenditures on outside professional services to support our expanding business. Other Income Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income $ 153 $ 27 $ 126 466.7 % Other income consisted primarily of interest income from debt security investments and net gains or losses from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2017 2016 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 206 $ (408 ) $ 614 (150.5 )% Effective tax rate 7.4 % (29.7)% 37.1 % The quarterly income taxes reflect an estimation of the corresponding fiscal years annual effective tax rate and include, when applicable, adjustments from discrete tax items arising in that quarter. The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decrease in the proportion of profits generated in lower tax jurisdictions; and an increase in non-deductible stock-based compensation expense. 27 Liqui dity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2017 and January 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $420.2 million and $405.4 million, respectively. We invest in highly liquid, short-term marketable securities and hold these investments as available-for-sale securities. As of April 30, 2017, these securities had a fair value of approximately $101.1 million with insignificant unrealized losses caused by fluctuations in market value and interest rates. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 23,023 $ 15,550 Net cash used in investing activities (3,535 ) (16,562 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (7,178 ) 915 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 12,310 $ (97 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 primarily due to increased net income as a result of increased revenue, adjusted for increased non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The increase was also attributable to increased cash receipts associated with the timing of payments from customers, decreased inventory purchases and increased deferred revenue associated with the timing of inventory shipments by our logistics providers. The increase was partially offset by decreased liabilities associated with the timing of payments to suppliers. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 primarily due to $28.8 million higher investment in debt securities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The decreased cash used in investing activities was partially offset by approximately $15.3 million less cash received from the sale and maturity of debt securities compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the payment of $8.8 million in cash for the repurchase of our ordinary shares under our stock repurchase program in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Stock Repurchase Program On May 31, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorizes us to repurchase up to $75.0 million in aggregate of our ordinary shares over a six-month period. On November 29, 2016, our Board of Directors extended the duration of the repurchase program until June 30, 2017. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at our discretion. The repurchase program is funded using our working capital and any repurchased shares are recorded as authorized but unissued shares. As of April 30, 2017, we had repurchased a total of 567,827 shares for approximately $29.0 million in cash. On May 31, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $50.0 million of our ordinary shares over a twelve-month period commencing July 1, 2017. Repurchases under the new program may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases or through privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The new repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of ordinary shares, and it may be suspended at any time at the company's discretion. Consistent with the existing repurchase program, the new program will be funded using working capital and any repurchased shares will be recorded as authorized but unissued shares. 28 Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements We have generated net income annually since fiscal year 2010, and we have generated cash from operations annually since fiscal year 2009. We believe that our anticipated cash generated from operations and our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In the future, we expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our business activities, and implement and enhance our information technology platforms. As we expand our operations, we may require more working capital. If our available cash balances are insufficient to satisfy our future liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell equity or convertible debt securities or borrow funds commercially. The sale of equity and convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our shareholders and those securities may have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently anticipated amounts. Additional capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Our short- and long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: our ability to generate cash from operations; our ability to control our costs; the emergence of competing or complementary technologies or products; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; and our acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of April 30, 2017: Payment Due by Period as of April 30, 2017 (in thousands) Less than More than All Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years Other Contractual Obligations Facilities under operating leases $ 7,872 $ 1,842 $ 4,968 $ 1,062 $ $ Technology license or other obligations 10,872 3,794 7,078 Purchase obligations 31,670 31,670 Uncertain tax liabilities 1,916 1,916 Total $ 52,330 $ 37,306 $ 12,046 $ 1,062 $ $ 1,916 As of April 30, 2017, we had purchase obligations with our independent contract manufacturers of $31.7 million. Uncertain tax liabilities represent our potential liabilities related to these uncertain tax positions as of April 30, 2017. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2017, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2017 fiscal year filed with the SEC on March 30, 2017, except with respect to noncancelable internal-use software license. 29 Noncancelable Internal-Use Software License We account for a noncancelable on premise internal-use software license as the acquisition of an intangible asset and the incurrence of a liability to the extent that all or a portion of the software licensing fees are not paid on or before the license acquisition date. The intangible asset and related liability are recorded at net present value and interest expense is recorded over the payment term.