ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, designed, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: the proposed merger between AMD and Xilinx, Inc. and the expected closing by the end of 2021; demand for AMDs products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; expected seasonality trends; that unbilled accounts receivables are expected to be billed and collected within twelve months; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMDs expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; that AMDs cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (Revolving Facility) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMDs operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMDs ability to obtain sufficient external financing or external financing on favorable terms; AMDs expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMDs current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; that the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business; ongoing and increase in costs related to IT network security; and a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMDs revenue in the future. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. Many of these risks and uncertainties may be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global business and economic environment as a result. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo, Athlon, EPYC, Radeon, Ryzen, Threadripper and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft and Xbox One are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Zen is a codename for an AMD architecture, and is not a product name. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 28, 2019 and December 30, 2018, and for each of the three years for the period ended December 28, 2019 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Overview We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated into an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units (GPUs), data center and professional GPUs, and development services; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services and technology for game consoles. From time to time, we may also sell or license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. 20 In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, us, our or AMD), including a discussion of our results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 26, 2020 compared to the prior year period, an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue for the three months ended September 26, 2020 was $2.8 billion, a 56% increase compared to the prior year period. The increase was due to a 31% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 116% increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our Ryzen processors. The increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue was primarily due to higher semi-custom revenue and EPYC server processor revenue. Our operating income for the three months ended September 26, 2020 was $449 million compared to operating income of $186 million for the prior year period. Our net income for the three months ended September 26, 2020 was $390 million compared to net income of $120 million for the prior year period. The increase in operating income and net income was primarily driven by strong revenue growth which more than offset higher operating expenses. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of September 26, 2020 were $1.8 billion, compared to $1.5 billion as of December 28, 2019. The aggregate principal amount of our outstanding debt obligations was $398 million and $563 million as of September 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, respectively. During the third quarter of 2020, we expanded our desktop and mobile processor families. In July 2020, we introduced the AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO Processor line-up designed for professional workstations from OEMs to system integrators and AMD Ryzen 4000 Series desktop processors with Radeon graphics for consumers, gamers, streamers and creators. We also introduced AMD Athlon 3000 Series desktop processors using the same Zen core architecture and built-in Radeon graphics as the AMD Ryzen desktop processor family. In August 2020, we announced the availability of the new AMD Radeon Pro 5000 series GPUs for the updated 27-inch iMac bringing a wide variety of graphically intensive applications and workloads to consumer and professional users. Also, in September 2020, we announced the AMD Ryzen 3000 C-Series mobile processors and the AMD Athlon 3000 C-Series mobile processors for Chromebook platforms designed for multi-tasking and content creation in distance learning and remote working. During the third quarter of 2020, we continued to monitor the ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) situation and to take measures to protect the health and safety of our employees. While many of our offices remained open to enable critical on-site business functions in accordance with local government guidelines, most of our employees worked from home during the third quarter of 2020. We continue to take measures to support our employees so that they can be productive as they work from home. During the third quarter of 2020, the majority of our employees in China worked at the office and we maintained normal business operations subject to local government health measures. While COVID-19 has impacted our business operations and practices, and we expect that it may continue to impact our business, we experienced limited financial disruption during the third quarter of 2020 from COVID-19. We monitor demand signals as we adjust our supply chain requirements based on changing customer needs and demands. We also assess our product schedules and roadmaps to make any adjustments that may be necessary to support remote working requirements and address the geographic and market demand shifts caused by COVID-19. On October 26, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), by and among us, Thrones Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub), a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of ours, and Xilinx, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Xilinx), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Xilinx (the Merger), with Xilinx surviving such merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Xilinx (Xilinx Common Stock) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than treasury shares and any shares of Xilinx Common Stock held directly by us or Merger Sub) will be converted into the right to receive 1.7234 of a fully paid and non-assessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AMD and, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to any applicable withholding, which as of the signing of the Merger Agreement, the transaction was valued at $35 billion . The closing of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including regulatory approval and approval by the stockholders of both AMD and Xilinx. The transaction is currently expected to close by the end of calendar year 2021. 21 We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year and quarter to quarter, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. Results of Operations We report our financial performance based on the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 10Segment Reporting of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (Part I, Financial Information of this Form 10-Q). Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. Historically, our net revenue has been generally higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, although market conditions and product transitions could impact these trends. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 26, 2020 September 28, 2019 September 26, 2020 September 28, 2019 (In millions) Net revenue: Computing and Graphics $ 1,667 $ 1,276 $ 4,472 $ 3,047 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 1,134 525 2,047 1,557 Total net revenue $ 2,801 $ 1,801 $ 6,519 $ 4,604 Operating income (loss): Computing and Graphics $ 384 $ 179 $ 846 $ 217 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 141 61 148 218 All Other (76) (54) (195) (152) Total operating income $ 449 $ 186 $ 799 $ 283 Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1.7 billion for the three months ended September 26, 2020 increased by 31%, compared to net revenue of $1.3 billion for the prior year period, primarily as a result of a 44% increase in unit shipments, partially offset by a 7% decrease in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily due to higher demand for our Ryzen processors. The decrease in average selling price was primarily driven by lower average selling price for our Radeon channel products due to product cycle timing. Computing and Graphics net revenue of $4.5 billion for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 increased by 47%, compared to net revenue of $3.0 billion for the prior year period, primarily as a result of a 39% increase in unit shipments and a 5% increase in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily due to higher demand for our Ryzen processors. The increase in average selling price was primarily driven by a richer mix of client processors from higher sales of our Ryzen processors which have a higher average selling price, partially offset by lower average selling price for our Radeon products due to product cycle timing. Computing and Graphics operating income was $384 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020, compared to operating income of $179 million for the prior year period. Computing and Graphics operating income was $846 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, compared to operating income of $217 million for the prior year period. The increase in operating income for both periods was primarily driven by the margin contribution from higher sales which more than offset higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons outlined under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $1.1 billion for the three months ended September 26, 2020 increased by 116%, compared to net revenue of $525 million for the prior year period, primarily driven by higher semi-custom revenue and sales of our EPYC server processors. 22 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $2.0 billion for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 increased by 31%, compared to net revenue of $1.6 billion for the prior year period, primarily driven by higher sales of our EPYC server processors, partially offset by lower semi-custom revenue. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $141 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020 compared to operating income of $61 million for the prior year period. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by the margin contribution from higher revenue which more than offset higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons outlined under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $148 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 compared to operating income of $218 million for the prior year period. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the recognition of a $60 million licensing gain in the prior year period and higher operating expenses which more than offset the margin contribution from the increase in revenue. Operating expenses increased for the reasons outlined under Expenses below. All Other All Other operating loss of $76 million and $54 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020 and prior year period, respectively, were related to stock-based compensation expense. All Other operating loss consisted of $195 million of stock-based compensation expense for the nine months ended September 26, 2020. All Other operating loss of $152 million for the prior year period consisted of $140 million stock-based compensation expense and $12 million contingent loss accrual on a legal matter. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 72% for both the three months ended September 26, 2020 and September 28,2019. International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 77% for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 and 73% for the prior year period. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Licensing Gain, Interest Expense, Other Expense and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 26, 2020 September 28, 2019 September 26, 2020 September 28, 2019 (In millions except for percentages) Net Revenue $ 2,801 $ 1,801 $ 6,519 $ 4,604 Cost of sales 1,571 1,024 3,623 2,685 Gross profit 1,230 777 2,896 1,919 Gross margin 44 % 43 % 44 % 42 % Research and development 508 406 1,410 1,152 Marketing, general and administrative 273 185 687 544 Licensing gain (60) Interest expense (11) (24) (38) (76) Other expense, net (37) (36) (32) (40) Income tax provision (benefit) 12 7 22 (4) Equity income in investee 1 1 2 23 Gross Margin Gross margin was 44% for the three months ended September 26, 2020, compared to 43% for the prior year period. Gross margin was 44% for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, compared to 42% for the prior year period. The increase in gross margin for both periods was primarily driven by sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors, which have a higher gross margin than the corporate average, partially offset by sales of semi-custom products which have a lower gross margin than the corporate average. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $508 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020 increased by $102 million, or 25%, compared to $406 million for the prior year period. Research and development expenses of $1.4 billion for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 increased by $0.2 billion, or 22%, compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year period. The increase for both periods was primarily driven by an increase in product development costs in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise and Embedded and Semi-Custom segments, due to an increase in headcount and higher annual employee incentives driven by improved financial performance. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $273 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020 increased by $88 million, or 48%, compared to $185 million for the prior year period. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $687 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 increased by $143 million, or 26%, compared to $544 million for the prior year period. The increase for both periods was primarily due to an increase in go to market activities in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise and Embedded and Semi-Custom segments, and an increase in headcount and higher annual employee incentives driven by improved financial performance. Licensing Gain During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, we recognized $60 million as licensing gain associated with licensed IP to the THATIC JV. See Note 3Related PartiesEquity Joint Ventures of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part 1, Financial Information of this Form 10-Q) for additional information. We did not recognize a licensing gain in the three and nine months ended September 26, 2020. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended September 26, 2020 was $11 million compared to $24 million for the prior year period. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 was $38 million compared to $76 million for the prior year period. The decrease for both periods was due to lower debt balances. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was $37 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020, compared to Other income, net of $36 million for the prior year period. Other expense, net was $32 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, compared to Other expense, net of $40 million for the prior year period. Other expense, net for all periods primarily comprised of losses on redemptions, repurchases and conversions of our outstanding debt and convertible debt instruments. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) For the three months ended September 26, 2020, we recorded an income tax provision of $12 million associated primarily with foreign income taxes. For the prior year period, we recorded an income tax provision of $7 million, consisting primarily of $4 million of withholding taxes and $3 million of foreign income taxes in profitable locations. 24 For the nine months ended September 26, 2020, we recorded an income tax provision of $22 million associated primarily with foreign income taxes and withholding taxes. For the prior year period, we recorded an income tax benefit of $4 million, consisting primarily of a $13 million credit to U.S. income taxes due to the completion of certain internal tax structuring partially offset by $5 million of withholding taxes and $4 million of foreign income taxes in profitable locations. We regularly evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets. As of September 26, 2020, substantially all our U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, were subject to valuation allowances. If our financial results continue to improve and we conclude that estimates of our future taxable income are objectively verifiable, our assessment of the realization of our net deferred tax assets could result in the release of a significant portion of the valuation allowances, with the exception of net operating losses subject to potential limitation, including limitations under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 or 383, separate return loss year rules, or dual consolidated loss rules. Such a release would result in a material non-cash income tax benefit in our condensed consolidated statement of operations in the period of release and the recording of additional deferred tax assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. There is a reasonable possibility that within the next several quarters, sufficient positive evidence becomes available to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of the valuation allowances against our U.S. net deferred tax assets would no longer be required. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 26, 2020, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1.8 billion, compared to $1.5 billion as of December 28, 2019. The percentage of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held domestically was 91% as of September 26, 2020 and 90% as of December 28, 2019. Our operating, investing and financing activities for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 compared to the prior year period are as described below: Nine Months Ended September 26, 2020 September 28, 2019 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 517 $ 51 Investing activities $ (658) $ (123) Financing activities $ (29) $ 150 The aggregate principal amount of our outstanding debt obligations was $398 million and $563 million as of September 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, respectively. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments along with our Revolving Facility will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe we will be able to access the capital markets should we require additional funds. However, we cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Operating Activities Our working capital cash inflows and outflows from operations are primarily cash collections from our customers, payments for inventory purchases and payments for employee-related expenditures. Net cash provided by operating activities was $517 million in the nine months ended September 26, 2020, primarily due to our net income of $709 million, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $538 million and net cash outflows of $730 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $287 million increase in accounts receivable driven primarily by higher revenue in the third quarter of 2020 compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, partially offset by higher collections due to better revenue linearity in the third quarter of 2020 compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, a $310 million increase in inventories driven by an increase in product build, and a $172 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets due primarily to an increase in vendor credits. 25 Net cash provided by operating activities was $51 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2019, primarily due to our net income of $171 million, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $419 million and net cash outflows of $539 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $158 million increase in accounts receivable driven primarily by higher revenue in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of 2018 partially offset by lower unbilled receivables, and a $195 million increase in inventories primarily driven by an increase in wafer purchases during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, a $179 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other primarily driven by less inventory purchases in the latter half of the third quarter of 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of 2018 . Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $658 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, which primarily consisted of $530 million for purchases of short-term investments and $220 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $92 million for maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities was $123 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2019, which primarily consisted of $284 million for purchases of available-for-sale debt securities and $175 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $309 million for maturities of available-for-sale debt securities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $29 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, which primarily consisted of common stock repurchased for tax withholding on employee equity plans of $73 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans of $45 million. We borrowed $200 million short-term debt and paid off the balance during the nine months ended September 26, 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities was $150 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2019, which primarily consisted of a cash inflow of $449 million from the warrant exercised by West Coast Hitech L.P. and $38 million from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans, partially offset by $331 million cash outflows for the redemption of our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019, repurchase of some of our 7.50% Senior Notes due 2020 and 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024, and repayment of our outstanding loan balance of $70 million when we terminated our secured revolving line of credit under the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement dated as of April 14, 2015. Contractual Obligations Other than the conversion of $165 million principal amount of our 2.125% Notes, there were no other material changes outside the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 for details of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 26, 2020, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 26 Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. The following reflect updates to our disclosures of certain of our critical accounting estimates compared to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Revenue Allowances. Revenue contracts with our customers include variable amounts which we evaluate under ASC 606-10-32-8 through 14 in order to determine the net amount of consideration to which we are entitled and which we recognize as revenue. We determine the net amount of consideration to which we are entitled by estimating the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive from the customer after adjustments to the contract price for rights of return and rebates to our OEM customers and rights of return, rebates and price protection on unsold merchandise to our distributor customers. We base our determination of necessary adjustments to the contract price by reference to actual historical activity and experience, including actual historical returns, rebates and credits issued to OEM and distributor customers adjusted, as applicable, to include adjustments, if any, for known events or current economic conditions, or both. Our estimates of necessary adjustments for distributor price incentives and price protection on unsold products held by distributors are based on actual historical incentives provided to distributor customers and known future price movements based on our internal and external market data analysis. Our estimates of necessary adjustments for OEM price incentives utilize, in addition to known pricing agreements, actual historical rebate attainment rates and estimates of future OEM rebate program attainment based on internal and external market data analysis. We also provide limited product return rights to certain OEMs and to most distribution customers. These return rights are generally limited to a contractual percentage of the customers prior quarter shipments, although, from time to time we may approve additional product returns beyond the contractual arrangements based on the applicable facts and circumstances. In order to estimate adjustments to revenue to account for these returns, including product restocking rights provided to distributor and OEM customers, we utilize relevant, trended actual historical product return rate information gathered, adjusted for actual known information or events, as applicable. Overall our estimates of adjustments to contract price due to variable consideration under our contracts with OEM and distributor customers, based on our assumptions and include adjustments, if any, for known events, have been materially consistent with actual results; however, these estimates are subject to managements judgment and actual provisions could be different from our estimates and current provisions, resulting in future adjustments to our revenue and operating results. Inventory Valuation. We value inventory at standard cost, adjusted to approximate the lower of actual cost or estimated net realizable value using assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Material assumptions we use to estimate necessary inventory carrying value adjustments can be unique to each product and are based on specific facts and circumstances. In determining excess or obsolescence reserves for products, we consider assumptions such as changes in business and economic conditions, other-than-temporary decreases in demand for our products, and changes in technology or customer requirements. In determining the lower of cost or net realizable value reserves, we consider assumptions such as recent historical sales activity and selling prices, as well as estimates of future selling prices. If in any period we anticipate a change in assumptions such as future demand or market conditions to be less favorable than our previous estimates, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales, resulting in a negative impact to our gross margin in that 27 period. If in any period we are able to sell inventories that had been written down to a level below the ultimate realized selling price in a previous period, related revenue would be recorded with a lower or no offsetting charge to cost of sales resulting in a net benefit to our gross margin in that period. The impact from applying the above assumptions in calculating inventory carrying value adjustments was immaterial for each of the periods presented on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Income Taxes . In determining taxable income for financial statement reporting purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are applied in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of deferred tax assets which arise from temporary differences between the recognition of assets and liabilities for tax and financial statement reporting purposes. We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. Unless recovery is considered more-likely-than-not (a probability level of more than 50%), we will record a charge to income tax expense in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable or maintain the valuation allowance recorded in prior periods. When considering all available evidence, if we determine we can more-likely-than-not realize our deferred tax assets, we will reverse some or a significant portion of the existing valuation allowance, which would result in a credit to income tax expense and the establishment of an asset in the period of reversal. In determining the need to establish or maintain a valuation allowance, we considered the four sources of jurisdictional taxable income: (i) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; (ii) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (iii) carryback of net operating losses to prior years; and (iv) tax planning strategies. Given the lack of available taxable income from three of the other sources, our determination of taxable income sufficient to realize our deferred tax assets is based on estimated future taxable income. The incremental recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon estimated future taxable income through objectively verifiable forecasts of future income. The highly competitive landscape and cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry makes it difficult to create an objectively verifiable forecast for those companies not in a dominant position and, as a result, sustained profitability is difficult to forecast. We regularly evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets. We have a history of generating periods of substantial losses. Our recent three-year period of modest profitability was preceded by six years of substantial losses. Given the magnitude of our tax attributes, our position in the highly competitive semiconductor industry dominated by two larger competitors, the cyclical nature of the industry, and our underlying history of uncertainty for sustained product performance, market acceptance and the resulting financial impact, we do not have objectively verifiable forecasts. We are developing and have released new products with large market potential in areas such as server processors, mobile processors, and game consoles. We currently have positive momentum with our new consumer and commercial product offerings. We are building high-performance computing leadership. However, given our historical earnings patterns, additional market success and a higher level of confidence in related profits are needed to establish the sustained profitability to objectively verify our forecasts of future taxable income. As a result, substantially all our U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, are subject to valuation allowances, subject to other jurisdictional limitations on the timing of utilization of certain deferred tax asset attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards. Our sustained profitability is dependent on the continued positive momentum of our consumer and commercial products including our newly released mobile processors, greater market acceptance for our server products, the successful adoption of our new game console products, and our continued development of high-performance computing products leadership. In assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets, we will continue to monitor the highly dynamic and competitive landscape of our industry, the continued performance and market acceptance of our new products, and the impact of such market acceptance on profitability. If our financial results continue to improve and we conclude that estimates of our future taxable income are objectively verifiable, our assessment of the realization of our net deferred tax assets could result in the release of some or a significant portion of the valuation allowances. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves addressing uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities. If our estimates of these taxes are greater or less than actual results, an additional tax benefit or charge will result. We recognize the interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as interest expense and income tax expense, respectively. 28