ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, designed, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMDs products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; expected seasonality trends; that unbilled accounts receivables are expected to be billed and collected within twelve months; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMDs expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; that AMDs cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (Secured Revolving Facility) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMDs operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMDs ability to obtain sufficient external financing or external financing on favorable terms; AMDs expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMDs current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; that the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business; ongoing and increase in costs related to IT network security; and a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMDs revenue in the future. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. Many of these risks and uncertainties may be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global business and economic environment as a result. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo, Athlon, EPYC, Radeon, Ryzen and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft and Xbox One are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Zen is a codename for an AMD architecture, and is not a product name. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 28, 2019 and December 30, 2018 , and for each of the three years for the period ended December 28, 2019 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 . Overview We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated into an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units (GPUs), data center and professional GPUs, and development services; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, us, our or AMD), including a discussion of our results 19 of operations for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to the prior year period , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue for the three months ended March 28, 2020 was $1.8 billion , a 40% increase compared to the prior year period . The increase was primarily due to a 73% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue, partially offset by a 21% decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our Ryzen processors and Radeon products channel sales. The decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue was primarily due to lower semi-custom revenue, partially offset by higher EPYC server processor revenue. Our operating income for the three months ended March 28, 2020 was $177 million compared to operating income of $38 million for the prior year period . Our net income for the three months ended March 28, 2020 was $162 million compared to net income of $16 million for the prior year period . Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 28, 2020 were $1.4 billion , compared to $1.5 billion as of December 28, 2019 . We continue to monitor the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) on our business. We have complied with shelter-in-place and other government-enacted stay-at-home orders. While many of our offices around the world remain open to enable critical on-site business functions in accordance with local government guidelines, the majority of our employees have been working from home. While the COVID-19 outbreak has impacted our business operations and practices, and we expect it to continue to impact our business, we experienced limited financial disruption during the first quarter of 2020 from COVID-19. During the first quarter of 2020, we experienced some disruptions to parts of our supply chain. We continue to monitor demand signals as we adjust our supply chain requirements based on changing customer needs and demands. We also experienced some softness in PC related sales in China, one of the largest global markets for desktop and notebook PCs, during the first quarter of 2020. Although component and system demand sales from on-line vendors were relatively strong, off-line channel sales were weaker than expected as many retail locations across China were closed during the first quarter of 2020. We continue to assess our product roadmaps to make any adjustments that may be necessary to address the geographic and market demand shifts caused by COVID-19. Also, during the first quarter of 2020, we experienced some delays in payments from customers due to the COVID-19 outbreak. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year and quarter to quarter, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. Results of Operations We report our financial performance based on the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 10 - Segment Reporting of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Financial Information of this Form 10-Q). Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. Historically, our net revenue has been generally higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, although market conditions and product transitions could impact these trends. 20 The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (In millions) Net revenue: Computing and Graphics $ 1,438 $ 831 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 348 441 Total net revenue $ 1,786 $ 1,272 Operating income (loss): Computing and Graphics $ 262 $ 16 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom (26 ) 68 All Other (59 ) (46 ) Total operating income $ 177 $ 38 Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1.4 billion for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by 73% , compared to net revenue of $831 million for the prior year period, primarily as a result of a 38% increase in unit shipments and a 19% increase in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily due to higher demand for our Ryzen processors and Radeon channel products. The increase in average selling price was primarily driven by a richer mix of client processors from higher sales of our Ryzen processors which have a higher average selling price. Computing and Graphics operating income was $262 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , compared to operating income of $ 16 million for the prior year period. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by higher sales which more than offset higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons outlined under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $348 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 decreased by 21% , compared to net revenue of $441 million for the prior year period, primarily as a result of lower semi-custom revenue, partially offset by higher sales of our EPYC server processors. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating loss was $26 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to operating income of $68 million for the prior year period. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the recognition of a $60 million licensing gain in the prior year period and higher operating expenses in the current period. Operating expenses increased for the reasons outlined under Expenses below. All Other All Other operating loss consisted of $59 million of stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , and $41 million of stock-based compensation expense and a $5 million contingent loss in connection with a legal matter for the prior year period . International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 82% for the three months ended March 28, 2020 and 77% for the prior year period . We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. 21 Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Licensing Gain, Interest Expense, Other Expense and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (Dollars in millions) Cost of sales $ 968 $ 751 Gross profit 818 521 Gross margin percentage 46 % 41 % Research and development 442 373 Marketing, general and administrative 199 170 Licensing gain (60 ) Interest expense (13 ) (27 ) Other income (expense), net 4 (7 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 6 (13 ) Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 46% for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , compared to 41% for the prior year period. The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by a higher proportion of sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors, which have a higher gross margin than the corporate average. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $442 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by $69 million , or 18% , compared to $373 million for the prior year period , primarily due to an increase in product development costs in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise and Embedded and Semi-Custom segments as well as an increase in stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $199 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by $29 million , or 17% , compared to $170 million for the prior year period , primarily due to an increase in go to market activities in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segments. Licensing Gain During the three months ended March 30, 2019 , we recognized $60 million as licensing gain associated with licensed IP to the THATIC JV. See Note 3 - Equity Joint Ventures of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part 1, Financial Information of this Form 10-Q) for additional information. We did not recognize a licensing gain in the current quarter. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 28, 2020 was $13 million compared to $27 million for the prior year period . The decrease was primarily due to lower debt balances. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net was $4 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , compared to Other expense, net of $7 million for the prior year period . The change was due primarily to the recognition of a loss on extinguishment of debt of $8 million in the prior year period . 22 Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes For the three months ended March 28, 2020 , we recorded an income tax expense of $6 million associated with foreign income taxes and withholding taxes. For the prior year period , we recorded an income tax benefit of $13 million associated with a credit to U.S. taxes due to a reduction of U.S. income taxes accrued in the prior year. We regularly evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets. As of March 28, 2020 , substantially all our U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, were subject to valuation allowances. If our financial results continue to improve, our assessment of the realization of our net deferred tax assets could result in the release of some or all the valuation allowances. Such a release would result in a material non-cash income tax benefit in our condensed consolidated statement of operations in the period of release and the recording of additional deferred tax assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. There is a reasonable possibility that within the next several quarters, sufficient positive evidence becomes available to reach a conclusion that all or a significant portion of the valuation allowances against our US net deferred tax assets would no longer be required. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 28, 2020 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $1.4 billion , compared to $1.5 billion as of December 28, 2019 . The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically was 90% as of both March 28, 2020 and December 28, 2019 . Our operating, investing and financing activities for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to the prior year period are as described below: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (65 ) $ (213 ) Investing activities $ (73 ) $ (173 ) Financing activities $ 2 $ 286 The aggregate principal amount of our outstanding debt obligations was $563 million as of both March 28, 2020 and December 28, 2019 . As a precautionary measure given the current market environment, on April 6, 2020, we borrowed $200 million under the Credit Agreement via the LIBOR rate loan option (refer to Note 4 - Debt and Secured Revolving Facility of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). The borrowing carries an annual interest rate of 2.37% through the maturity date of July 6, 2020. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance along with our Secured Revolving Facility will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe we will be able to access the capital markets should we require additional funds. However, we cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $65 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $213 million for the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to higher net income compared with the prior year period, offset by changes in working capital. 23 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $73 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , which primarily consisted of $55 million for purchases of available-for-sale debt securities and $55 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $37 million for maturities of available-for-sale debt securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $173 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , which primarily consisted of $231 million for purchases of available-for-sale debt securities and $62 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $93 million for maturities of available-for-sale debt securities. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $2 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , which primarily consisted of a cash inflow of $3 million from exercises of stock options under our stock-based compensation equity plans. Net cash provided by financing activities was $286 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , which primarily consisted of a cash inflow of $449 million from the warrant exercised by West Coast Hitech L.P., partially offset by $164 million paid for the redemption of our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 (6.75% Senior Notes) and the repurchase of our 7.50% Senior Notes due 2020 (7.50% Senior Notes) and 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 (7.00% Notes). Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 for details of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2020 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes for the three months ended March 28, 2020 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 . 24