ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as predictions of future events as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, or anticipates or the negative of these words and phrases or other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things : demand for our products; the timing of new product releases and technology transitions; our growth opportunity in the notebook market; the growth and competitive landscape of the markets in which we participate; capital expenditures; market expense; our planned research and development spending; our future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) under the wafer purchase agreement; the duration of potential supply constraints with respect to our graphics products; our product roadmap; unrecognized tax benefits; and availability of external financing. Material factors and assumptions that were applied in making these forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: (1) the expected rate of market growth and demand for our products and technologies (and the mix thereof); (2) our expected market share; (3) our expected product costs and average selling price; (4) our overall competitive position and the competitiveness of our current and future products; (5) our ability to introduce new products, consistent with our current roadmap; (6) our ability to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms; (7) our ability to make additional investment in research and development and that such opportunities will be available; (8) our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the GF manufacturing joint venture and of our asset smart strategy; (9) the expected demand for computers; and (10) the state of credit markets and macroeconomic conditions. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: (1) that Intel Corporations pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact our plans; (2) that we may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market at mature yields on a timely basis; (3) that GF and our other third party foundries will be unable to transition our products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; (4) that GF and our other third party foundries will be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis and on competitive process technologies; (5) that we will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for our products or will under-utilize our commitment with respect to GFs microprocessor manufacturing facilities; (6) that our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations; (7) that we will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; (8) that we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of our asset smart strategy or the GF manufacturing joint venture because, among other things, the synergies expected from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; (9) that customers stop buying our products or materially reduce their operations or demand for our products; (10) that we may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; (11) that there may be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for our products and technologies in light of the product mix that we may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; (12) that global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen; (13) that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and (14) the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on our sales or supply chain. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors section beginning on page 41 and the Financial Condition section beginning on page 33 and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI and the ATI logo, AMD Opteron, Mobility, Radeon, and combinations thereof, ATI and the ATI logo are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 26, 2009 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2009. 23 Table of Contents Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, for the commercial and consumer markets, embedded microprocessors for commercial, commercial client and consumer markets and chipsets for desktop and notebook PCs, professional workstations and servers; and graphics, video and multimedia products for desktop and notebook computers, including home media PCs and professional workstations, servers and technology for game consoles. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 26, 2010 compared to the quarter ended March 27, 2010 and the quarter and six months ended June 27, 2009, an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements. References in this report to us, our or AMD, include these consolidated operating results. Supported by an improved economic environment and robust demand for IT products, we reported record second quarter revenues for the second quarter of 2010 as well as improved operating performance compared to the same period in the prior year. Our net revenue in the second quarter of 2010 was $1.65 billion, an increase of 40% compared to the second quarter of 2009 and an increase of 5% compared to the first quarter of 2010. During the second quarter, we continued to experience strong demand for our GPU products, although the increase in GPU unit shipments was tempered by continued supply constraints. We also experienced strong demand from existing and new customers for our new notebook platforms, and chipset unit shipments increased compared to both the second quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 as customers increasingly adopted AMD chipsets with our microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, for the second quarter of 2010 was 45%, supported by lower unit costs due to improved utilization of GF manufacturing facilities and improved product mix. Also, we had positive operating income. In addition, in the second quarter of 2010, we continued to experience strong market adoption of our VISION Technology marketing campaign. As a result of this campaign, we more than tripled the number of VISION branded platforms in the market since September 2009. We designed the VISION Technology program to simplify the buying process for consumers by more clearly connecting our brand to the level of activities that consumers want to perform on the PC. Under the VISION Technology brand, we launched new 2010 mainstream and enthusiast desktop platforms that include the AMD Phenom II X6 processor and new 2010 mainstream and ultrathin notebook platforms during the second quarter of 2010. In addition, in June 2010, we launched the AMD Opteron 4000 series processor which is targeted at the value and power conscious segment of the mainstream infrastructure server market. These processors are currently the worlds lowest power per core server processors and are designed to meet the requirements of cloud and hyperscale data centers. We also launched the AMD FireStream 9350 and AMD Firestream 9370 GPU compute accelerators during the second quarter of 2010. The new AMD FireStream accelerators are targeted at high performance computing, cloud and enterprise-scale deployments that perform highly parallel, compute-intensive workloads. From a financial condition perspective, we ended the second quarter of 2010 with cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1.9 billion. Long-term debt as of the end of the second quarter of 2010 was $2.4 billion. During the first six months of 2010, we repurchased $216 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes (the 6.00% Notes) for approximately $209 million in cash. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, pursuant to funding requests from GF in accordance with the Funding Agreement between us, GF and ATIC dated as of March 2, 2009, ATIC contributed a total of $327 million of cash to GF in exchange for GF securities consisting of 79,272 Class A Preferred shares and 317,091 Class B Preferred shares. We did not participate in these fundings. As a result, our Class A Preferred share ownership interest in GF decreased from approximately 83% as of December 27, 2009, to approximately 79% as of June 26, 2010, and our ownership interest in GF (on a fully diluted basis) decreased to approximately 28%. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenues, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. 24 Table of Contents Management believes there have been no significant changes during the second quarter of 2010 and the six months ended June 26, 2010, to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2009. Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our chief executive officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenues and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), equity in net income (loss) of investees and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on managements judgment. During the year ended December 26, 2009, we had the following three reportable operating segments: the Computing Solutions segment, which included microprocessors, chipsets and embedded processors and related revenue; the Graphics segment, which included graphics, video and multimedia products and related revenue as well as revenue received in connection with the development and sale of game console systems that incorporate our graphics technology; and the Foundry segment, which included operating results attributable to front end wafer manufacturing operations and related activities, including the operating results of GF, from March 2, 2009 to December 26, 2009. In addition to these reportable segments, we had an All Other category, which was not a reportable segment. This category included certain expenses and credits that were not allocated to any of the operating segments because management did not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the operating segments. These expenses were non-Foundry segment related expenses and included employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges and, amortization of acquired intangible assets. We also reported the results of the Handheld business unit in the All Other category because the operating results of this business unit were not material. The Handheld business unit consisted of the AMD Imageon media processor brand and handheld products that were part of the Handheld business unit prior to the sale of certain graphics and multimedia technology assets and intellectual property to Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm) during the first quarter of 2009. We also had an Intersegment Eliminations category, which was also not a reportable segment. This category included intersegment eliminations for revenue, cost of sales and profits on inventory related to transactions between the Computing Solutions segment and the Foundry segment. For the fourth quarter of 2009, the income we recognized pursuant to our settlement agreement with Intel was reported in the All Other category. Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, as a result of the deconsolidation of GF, we no longer have a Foundry segment or an Intersegment Eliminations category. Therefore, we started using the following two reportable operating segments: the Computing Solutions segment, which includes microprocessors, chipsets and embedded processors and related revenue; and the Graphics segment, which includes graphics, video and multimedia products and related revenue as well as revenue received in connection with the development and sale of game console systems that incorporate our graphics technology. In addition, starting in the first quarter of 2010, we began accounting for the embedded graphics business under the Computing Solutions segment. Previously, operating results related to this business were recorded as part of the Graphics segment. Information for prior periods has been recast to reflect this change. We continue to have an All Other category, as described above, and the results of the Handheld business unit continue to be reported in this category because we expect that the operating results of this business unit will continue to be immaterial. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment as follows: Quarter Ended Six Months Ended June 26, 2010 March 27, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 (In millions) Net revenue: Computing Solutions $ 1,212 $ 1,160 $ 926 $ 2,372 $ 1,868 Graphics 440 409 235 849 453 All Other 1 5 23 6 40 Foundry 253 536 Intersegment Eliminations (253 ) (536 ) Total net revenue $ 1,653 $ 1,574 $ 1,184 $ 3,227 $ 2,361 Operating income (loss): Computing Solutions $ 128 $ 146 $ (67 ) $ 274 $ (101 ) Graphics 33 47 (17 ) 80 (17 ) All Other (36 ) (11 ) (41 ) (47 ) (165 ) Foundry (101 ) (233 ) Intersegment Eliminations (23 ) (31 ) Total operating income (loss) $ 125 $ 182 $ (249 ) $ 307 $ (547 ) 25 Table of Contents Computing Solutions Computing Solutions net revenue of $1,212 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased 31% compared to net revenue of $926 million in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of a 33% increase in unit shipments. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to an increase in unit shipments of our chipset products and microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs. Unit shipments increased due to an improved economic environment which contributed to increased demand. In addition, chipset unit shipments increased as customers increasingly adopted AMD chipsets with our microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs where the attach rate is 100%. Unit shipments of our microprocessors for notebook PCs increased due to increased demand from existing and new customers for our new notebook platforms. Average selling price was relatively flat in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the second quarter of 2009. Increased microprocessor average selling price was offset by lower average selling price of embedded processors. Average selling price of our microprocessors increased primarily due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end microprocessors, especially for servers, as customers transitioned to our new AMD Opteron 6000 series server platforms. Average selling price of embedded processors decreased primarily due to a shift in our product mix to lower end embedded processors. Computing Solutions net revenue of $1,212 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased 4% compared to net revenue of $1,160 million in the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of a 9% increase in unit shipments partially offset by a 5% decrease in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to an increase in unit shipments of our chipset products and embedded processor products. Unit shipments of chipset products increased as customers increasingly adopted AMD chipsets with our microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs where the attach rate is 100%. Embedded processor unit shipments increased due to increased demand. Microprocessor unit shipments were flat in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2010. An increase in unit shipments of microprocessors for notebook PCs was offset by a decrease in unit shipments of microprocessors for servers and desktop PCs. Average selling price decreased primarily due to a decrease in average selling price of embedded processors as a result of a shift in our product mix to lower end embedded processors. Computing Solutions net revenue of $2,372 million for the first six months of 2010 increased 27% compared to net revenue of $1,868 million for the first six months of 2009 primarily as a result of a 35% increase in unit shipments partially offset by a 6% decrease in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to an increase in unit shipments of our chipset products and microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs. Unit shipments increased due to an improved economic environment which contributed to increased demand. Chipset unit shipments increased as customers increasingly adopted AMD chipsets with our microprocessor products, especially for notebook PCs where the attach rate is 100%. In addition, unit shipments of our microprocessors for notebook PCs increased due to increased demand from existing and new customers for our new notebook platforms. Average selling price decreased primarily due to a decrease in average selling price of embedded processors, which was partially offset by an increase in average selling price of microprocessor products. Average selling price of embedded processors decreased due to a shift in our product mix to lower end embedded processors. Average selling price of microprocessor products increased due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end microprocessors. Computing Solutions operating income was $128 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to an operating loss of $67 million in the second quarter of 2009. The improvement was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above partially offset by a $69 million increase in research and development expenses, a $19 million increase in cost of sales and a $3 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses. Research and development expenses and marketing, general and administrative expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. Cost of sales increased primarily due to the increase in unit shipments in the second quarter of 2010 and a one time benefit related to the deconsolidation of GF in the first quarter of 2010. Computing Solutions operating income was $128 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $146 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decline in operating results was primarily due to a $38 million increase in research and development expenses, a $16 million increase in cost of sales and a $14 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses. Research and development expenses and marketing, general and administrative expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. Cost of sales increased primarily due to the increase in unit shipments. 26 Table of Contents Computing Solutions operating income was $274 million in the first six months of 2010 compared to an operating loss of $101 million in the first six months of 2009. The improvement was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a $17 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses. These improvements were partially offset by a $101 million increase in research and development expenses and a $45 million increase in cost of sales. Marketing, general and administrative expenses decreased and research and development expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. Cost of sales increased primarily due to the increase in unit shipments. Graphics Graphics net revenue of $440 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased 87% compared to net revenue of $235 million in the second quarter of 2009. The increase was primarily due to a 97% increase in net revenue from sales of GPU products. Revenue from sales of GPU products increased due to an increase in both GPU unit shipments and average selling price. Unit shipments increased due to strong demand for our DirectX 11-capable ATI Radeon products and continued demand for our ATI Radeon HD 4000 series. The increase in unit shipments was hampered due to continued supply constraints with respect to our latest generation GPUs introduced in the second half of 2009 and the first half of 2010. These supply constraints were primarily related to constrained wafer foundry capacity in the first half of 2010. GPU average selling price increased due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end GPU products. Graphics net revenue of $440 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased 8% compared to net revenue of $409 million in the first quarter of 2010. The increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from sales of GPU products. Revenue from sales of GPU products increased due to an increase in GPU unit shipments partially offset by a decrease in GPU average selling price. The increase in GPU unit shipments was primarily due to increased demand for our latest generation GPUs introduced in the second half of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in GPU average selling price was primarily due to continued supply constraints which resulted in a higher proportion of unit shipments to OEMs and lower proportion of unit shipments to add-in-board (AIB) partners. Generally, products sold to OEMs command lower selling prices than products sold to AIBs. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, OEM purchases skewed towards lower end GPU products. Graphics net revenue of $849 million in the first six months of 2010 increased 87% compared to net revenue of $453 million in the first six months of 2009. The increase was primarily due to a 101% increase in net revenue from sales of GPU products. Revenue from sales of GPU products increased due to an increase in both GPU unit shipments and average selling price. Unit shipments increased due to strong demand for our DirectX 11-capable ATI Radeon products and continued demand for our ATI Radeon HD 4000 series, but the increase was hampered due to the continued supply constraints described above. GPU average selling price increased due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end GPU products. Graphics operating income was $33 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to an operating loss of $17 million in the second quarter of 2009. The improvement was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by a $144 million increase in cost of sales due to higher GPU unit shipments and a $5 million increase in research and development expenses for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. Graphics operating income was $33 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $47 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in operating results was primarily due to a $38 million increase in cost of sales and $10 million increase in research and development expenses partially offset by the increase in net revenue referenced above and a $4 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses. Cost of sales increased primarily due to higher GPU unit shipments. Research and development expenses increased and marketing, general and administrative expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. Graphics operating income was $80 million in the first six months of 2010 compared to an operating loss of $17 million in the first six months of 2009. The improvement was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by a $286 million increase in cost of sales due to higher GPU unit shipments, an $8 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses and a $5 million increase in research and development expenses. Marketing, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. All Other All Other net revenue of $1 million in the second quarter of 2010 decreased by 96% compared to net revenue of $23 million in the second quarter of 2009. All Other net revenue decreased because of a significant reduction in customer orders for our existing Handheld products. Customer orders decreased because we decided to exit this business after selling certain graphics and multimedia technology assets and intellectual property to Qualcomm in the first quarter of 2009. 27 Table of Contents All Other net revenue of $1 million in the second quarter of 2010 decreased by 80% compared to net revenue of $5 million in the first quarter of 2010. As we continued to exit the business, we received fewer customer orders for existing Handheld products, which caused All Other net revenue to decrease. All Other net revenue of $6 million in the first six months of 2010 decreased by 85% compared to net revenue of $40 million in the first six months of 2009. All Other net revenue decreased because of a significant reduction in customer orders for the reasons set forth above. All Other operating loss in the second quarter of 2010 of $36 million improved compared to an operating loss of $41 million in the second quarter of 2009 primarily due to a $13 million decrease in cost of sales and a $9 million decrease in research and development expenses. The reduction in customer orders for Handheld products referenced above led to lower manufacturing costs and reduced cost of sales. Research and development expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. However, the $22 million decrease in net revenue referenced above mitigated the improvement in operating results. All Other operating loss in the second quarter of 2010 was $36 million compared to an operating loss of $11 million in the first quarter of 2010. The increased operating loss was primarily attributable to a $27 million increase in cost of sales and the $4 million decrease in net revenue referenced above. Cost of sales increased due to a benefit recognized in first quarter of 2010 related to deconsolidation of GF. All Other operating loss in the first six months of 2010 was $47 million compared to $165 million in the first six months of 2009. The improvement in operating results was primarily attributable to an absence of $60 million in restructuring charges, a $47 million decrease in cost of sales, a $23 million decrease in research and development expenses and an $18 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to a benefit recognized in first quarter of 2010 related to deconsolidation of GF and lower Handheld product shipments. Research and development expenses and marketing, general and administrative expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under Expenses, below. However, the $34 million decrease in net revenue referenced above tempered the improvement in operating results. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Income, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Quarter Ended Six Months Ended June 26, 2010 March 27, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 (In millions except for percentages) Cost of sales $ 915 $ 833 $ 743 $ 1,748 $ 1,409 Gross margin 738 741 441 1,479 952 Gross margin percentage 45 % 47 % 37 % 46 % 40 % Research and development $ 371 $ 323 $ 425 $ 694 $ 869 Marketing, general and administrative 229 219 247 448 534 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 17 17 17 34 35 Restructuring charges (reversal) (4 ) 1 (4 ) 61 Interest income 3 3 6 6 9 Interest expense (55 ) (49 ) (108 ) (104 ) (205 ) Other income (expense), net (1 ) 304 6 303 100 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5 ) (10 ) (5 ) 106 Equity in net income (loss) of investee $ (120 ) $ (183 ) $ $ (303 ) $ 28 Table of Contents Gross Margin The deconsolidation of GF affects the comparability of pre- and post-deconsolidation periods. In periods prior to the deconsolidation of GF, our inventory standard costs were lower than they are post-deconsolidation because they did not include the manufacturing profit associated with the wafer fabrication activities performed by GF, and they reflected our estimates of excess capacity. Post-deconsolidation, our standard costs reflect the cost-plus terms of the wafer supply agreement between us and GF. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 45% in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 37% in the second quarter of 2009. However, gross margin in the second quarter of 2009 included $20 million attributable to the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations related to profits on inventory and a $98 million benefit related to the sale of inventory that had been written-down in the fourth quarter of 2008. The factors that led to the sale of the inventory that was previously written down were the stabilization of the overall macroeconomic environment and improved business conditions in 2009 compared to the end of 2008, which led to an increase in end user demand for PCs and, correspondingly, an increase in customer orders for, and shipments of, our products. Without taking into account the gross margin benefit related to the sale of previously written-down inventory, which we believe is not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, and excluding the amount related to profits on inventory attributable to the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations in order to make it easier to compare current and historical period operating results, our gross margin would have been 27% in the second quarter of 2009. The improvement in gross margin in the second quarter of 2010 compared to the second quarter of 2009, as adjusted for the factors described above, was due primarily to the improvement in the utilization of GF manufacturing facilities, which is reflected in the prices we pay for microprocessors under the wafer supply agreement, an improvement in our unit costs primarily due to a greater proportion of microprocessors manufactured using 45 nm process technology, lower back end manufacturing costs and higher average selling price due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end products. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 45% in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 47% in the first quarter of 2010. Gross margin in the first quarter of 2010 included a $69 million benefit related to the deconsolidation impact of GF. Without taking into account the gross margin benefit related to the deconsolidation, which we believe is not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, our gross margin would have been 43% in the first quarter of 2010. The improvement in the gross margin in the second quarter of 2010 compared to first quarter of 2010, as adjusted for the factor described above, was due primarily to the improvement in the utilization of GF manufacturing facilities, and a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end products for both microprocessors and GPU products. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 46% in the first six months of 2010 compared to 40% in the first six months of 2009. Gross margin in the first six months of 2009 included $54 million attributable to the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations related to profits on inventory and a $162 million benefit related to the sale of inventory that had been previously written-down in the fourth quarter of 2008. Gross margin in the first six months of 2010 included the $69 million deconsolidation impact discussed above. Absent the effects of the events as described above, which we believe are not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, our gross margin would have been 44% in the first six months of 2010 compared to 31% in the first six months of 2009. The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to the improvement in utilization of GF manufacturing facilities, an improvement in our unit costs primarily due to a greater proportion of microprocessors manufactured using 45 nm process technology and higher average selling price due to a favorable shift in our product mix to higher end products. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $371 million in the second quarter of 2010 decreased by $54 million, or 13%, compared to $425 million in the second quarter of 2009. Research and development expenses in the second quarter of 2009 included $119 million in research and development expenses related to the Foundry segment. Without taking into account the research and development expenses related to the Foundry segment, which we believe is not indicative of our ongoing performance, research and development expenses would have increased by $65 million in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the second quarter of 2009 primarily due to a $69 million increase in research and development expense attributable to our Computing Solutions segment and a $5 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to a $25 million increase in product engineering and design costs for future products, a $21 million increase in manufacturing process technology expenses related to GF and a $20 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment was primarily due to increased employee benefit and compensation expense. The decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category was primarily because of lower research and development expenses related to handheld products because we decided to exit this business after selling certain graphics and multimedia technology assets and intellectual property to Qualcomm in the first quarter of 2009. 29 Table of Contents Research and development expenses of $371 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased by $48 million, or 15%, compared to $323 million in the first quarter of 2010. This increase was primarily due to a $38 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment and a $10 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to a $23 million increase in product engineering and design costs for future products, an $11 million increase in manufacturing process technology expenses related to GF and a $4 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment was primarily due to a $7 million increase in product engineering and design costs for future products and a $2 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense. Research and development expenses of $694 million in the first six months of 2010 decreased by $175 million, or 20%, compared to $869 million in the first six months of 2009. In the first six months of 2009, research and development expenses included $258 million in research and development expenses related to the Foundry segment. Without taking into account the research and development expenses attributable to the Foundry segment, research and development expenses would have increased by $83 million in the first six months of 2010 as compared to the first six months of 2009 primarily due to a $101 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment and a $5 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment, partially offset by a $23 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to a $40 million increase in product engineering and design costs for future products, a $36 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense and a $28 million increase in manufacturing process technology expenses related to GF. The increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Graphics segment was primarily due to a $19 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in product engineering and design costs for future products and a $7 million decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category was primarily because of lower research and development expenses related to handheld products. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $229 million in the second quarter of 2010 decreased by $18 million, or 7%, compared to $247 million in the second quarter of 2009. Marketing, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2009 included $26 million attributable to the Foundry segment. Without taking into account the marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to the Foundry segment, marketing, general and administrative expenses would have increased by $8 million. This increase was primarily due to an increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to a $10 million increase in sales and marketing expense and a $6 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense, partially offset by a $12 million decrease in legal expense. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $229 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased by $10 million, or 5%, compared to $219 million in the first quarter of 2010. This increase was due to a $14 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment, partially offset by a $4 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Graphics segment. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses in our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to an $8 million increase in sales and marketing expense and an $8 million increase in legal expenses and IT administrative projects. The decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses in our Graphics segment was primarily due to a $6 million decrease in sales and marketing expense. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $448 million in the first six months of 2010 decreased by $86 million, or 16%, compared to $534 million in the first six months of 2009. Marketing, general and administrative expenses in the first six months of 2009 included $60 million attributable to the Foundry segment. Without taking into account the marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to the Foundry segment, marketing, general and administrative expenses would have decreased by $26 million. This decrease was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our All Other category and a $17 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing Solutions segment. These decreases were partially offset by an $8 million increase in general and administrative expenses attributable to our Graphics segment. The decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to the All Other category was mainly due to the absence of $21 million of expenses incurred in connection with the formation of GF in the first quarter of 2009. The decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses in our Computing Solutions segment was primarily due to a $35 million decrease in legal expenses, partially offset by a $14 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense and a $7 million increase in sales and marketing expense. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Graphics segment was primarily due to a $6 million increase in employee benefit and compensation expense. We expect marketing expenses for the next two fiscal quarters to increase due to a change in our marketing programs as we transition to these new marketing programs. 30 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense of $55 million in the second quarter of 2010 decreased from $108 million in the second quarter of 2009. This decrease was due to $37 million of interest expense incurred by GF in the second quarter of 2009, and as a result of the deconsolidation of GF, this interest expense was not reflected in our results of operations in the second quarter of 2010. In addition, $28 million of this decrease was due to a decrease in the principal amount outstanding under our 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (5.75% Notes) and 6.00% Notes and the redemption of our 7.75% Senior Notes due 2012 (Old Senior Notes) in the fourth quarter of 2009. These factors were partially offset by interest expense of $10 million under our 8.125% Senior Notes due 2017 (8.125% Notes), which were not outstanding in the second quarter of 2009. Interest expense of $55 million in the second quarter of 2010 was relatively flat as compared to $49 million in the first quarter of 2010. Interest expense of $104 million in the first six months of 2010 decreased from $205 million in the first six months of 2009. This decrease was due to a $64 million decrease in the principal amount outstanding under our 5.75% Notes and 6.00% Notes and the full redemption of our Old Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 2009. In addition, GF incurred interest expense of $60 million in the first six months of 2009, and as a result of the deconsolidation of GF, this interest expense was not reflected in our results of operations in the first six months of 2010. These factors were partially offset by interest expense of $21 million under our 8.125% Notes, which were not outstanding in the second quarter of 2009. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net in the second quarter of 2010, was $1 million compared to other income, net of $6 million in the second quarter of 2009. During the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a $9 million loss related to foreign exchange rate fluctuations offset by a $7 million gain from the sale of marketable equity securities. In the second quarter of 2009, we recognized a gain of $15 million in connection with the settlement of a liability related to certain foreign currency exchange contracts, and we repurchased an aggregate of $15 million principal amount of our 5.75% Notes, resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million. These gains were partially offset by a $10 million foreign exchange loss. Other expense, net in the second quarter of 2010, was $1 million compared to other income, net of $304 million in the first quarter of 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, we recognized a non-cash one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of GF of approximately $325 million, offset by a loss of $18 million related to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. During the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a $9 million loss related to foreign exchange rate fluctuations offset by a gain of $7 million from the sale of marketable equity securities. Other income, net of $303 million in the first six months of 2010, increased from $100 million in the first six months of 2009. In the first six months of 2010, we recognized a non-cash one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of GF of approximately $325 million and a gain of $7 million from the sale of marketable equity securities, offset by a loss of $27 million related to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. During the first six months of 2009, we repurchased $158 million principal amount of our 6.00% Notes, resulting in a gain of approximately $108 million, and we also repurchased $15 million principal amount of our 5.75% Notes, resulting in a gain of approximately $6 million. In addition, we recognized a gain of $15 million in connection with the settlement of a liability related to certain foreign currency exchange contracts and a gain of $28 million on the sale of certain Handheld assets. These gains were partially offset by a $17 million charge for real estate transfer taxes in connection with the GF manufacturing joint venture transaction, a $10 million charge related to the AMTC joint venture (described in more detail in the section Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, below) and a $20 million foreign exchange loss. Income Taxes We recorded an income tax benefit of $5 million in the second quarter of 2010 due to the reversal of $8 million of unrecognized tax benefits offset by foreign taxes in profitable locations. For the six months ended June 26, 2010, we recorded an income tax benefit of $5 million due to research and development tax credit monetization benefits in the United States and the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits, offset by foreign taxes in profitable locations. In the second quarter of 2009, we recorded an income tax benefit of $10 million that consisted of discrete tax benefits of $7 million and the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income (OCI) of $10 million, offset by foreign taxes in profitable locations of $7 million. For the six months ended June 27, 2009, we recorded an income tax provision of $106 million primarily due to a one-time loss of deferred tax assets for German net operating loss carryovers upon the transfer of our ownership interests in certain German subsidiaries to GF and foreign taxes in profitable locations, offset by discrete tax benefits and the tax effects of items credited directly to OCI. As of June 26, 2010, substantially all of our U.S. deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which at June 26, 2010, in managements judgment, is not more likely than not to be achieved. During the second quarter of 2010, the IRS completed its audit of our U.S. Federal tax returns for the years ending 2004 to 2006 inclusive. 31 Table of Contents Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Investee The equity in net income (loss) of investee consists primarily of our proportionate share of GFs losses for the period based on our ownership percentage of GFs Class A Preferred shares, our portion of the non-cash accretion on GFs Class B Preferred shares, the elimination of intercompany profit, reflecting the mark-up on inventory that remains on our balance sheet at the end of the period, the amortization of basis differences identified from the purchase price allocation process based on the fair value of GF upon deconsolidation, and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of our ownership interest as a result of the capital infusion into GF by ATIC. On December 18, 2009, ATIC International Investment Company, or ATIC II, an affiliate of ATIC, acquired Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., or Chartered. On December 28, 2009, with our consent, ATIC II, Chartered and GF entered into a Management and Operating Agreement, or MOA, which provides for the joint management and operation of GF and Chartered. Under the applicable accounting rules, as a result of the MOA, GF is required to consolidate Chartered because it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of Chartered. For purposes of our application of the equity method of accounting, we record our share of the GF results excluding the results of Chartered because GF does not have an equity ownership interest in Chartered. As of June 26, 2010, our ownership interest in GF Class A Preferred shares was approximately 79%, and the carrying value of our investment in GF was $148 million. During the second quarter of 2010, pursuant to funding requests from GF in accordance with the Funding Agreement between us, GF and ATIC dated as of March 2, 2009, ATIC contributed a total of $327 million of cash to GF in exchange for GF securities consisting of 79,272 Class A Preferred shares and 317,091 Class B Preferred shares. We did not participate in these fundings. As a result, our ownership interest in GF (on a fully diluted basis) decreased to approximately 28%, and our Class A Preferred share ownership decreased from approximately 83% to approximately 79%, resulting in an aggregate gain on issuance of new GF shares of $6 million. We recorded the gain as part of the equity in net income (loss) of investee line item on our condensed consolidated statement of operations. We cannot currently quantify our maximum exposure to the future losses of GF. AMD and GF are parties to a Wafer Supply Agreement dated as of March 2, 2009, which, among other things, governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GF, subject to minimum purchase obligations. We currently pay GF for wafers on a cost-plus basis, which we believe represents market price. The wafer supply agreement terminates no later than February 2024. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities during the second quarter and six months ended June 26, 2010, amounted to approximately $336 million and $665 million, respectively. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: Quarter Ended Six Months Ended June 26, 2010 March 27, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 (In millions) Cost of sales $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 Research and development 11 10 10 21 19 Marketing, general, and administrative 11 9 7 20 18 Total stock-based compensation expense 23 20 18 43 39 Tax benefit Stock-based compensation expense, net of tax $ 23 $ 20 $ 18 $ 43 $ 39 Stock-based compensation expenses of $23 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased $5 million as compared to $18 million in the second quarter of 2009. This increase was primarily due to a higher average grant date fair value in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the second quarter of 2009. Stock-based compensation expenses of $23 million in the second quarter of 2010 increased $3 million as compared to $20 million in the first quarter of 2010. This increase was primarily due to more employee stock options and restricted stock units being granted in the second quarter of 2010 as part of the annual equity grant cycle as compared to the first quarter of 2010. Stock-based compensation expenses of $43 million in the first six months of 2010 increased $4 million as compared to $39 million in the first six months of 2009. This increase was primarily due to a higher average grant date fair value in the first six months of 2010 as compared to the first six months of 2009. 32 Table of Contents International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 88% in the second quarter of 2010, 87% in the second quarter of 2009 and 88% in the first quarter of 2010. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity As of June 26, 2010, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $1.9 billion compared to $2.7 billion as of December 26, 2009, of which $904 million represented GF cash and cash equivalents. Without taking into account the GF financial position, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities position improved by $124 million in the first six months of 2010 primarily as a result of cash provided by financing activities of $201 million partially offset by cash used in operating activities of $75 million. See Financial Condition Financing Activities and Financial Condition Operating Activities, below for additional information. Commencing in the first quarter of 2010, our management started reviewing adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental measure of our performance. For the six months ended June 26, 2010, our adjusted free cash flow was $253 million. Adjusted free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure, which we calculated by taking GAAP net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 26, 2010 of $75 million and adding an amount of $407 million, which represents payments made by certain of our distributor customers to IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the IBM Parties) pursuant to an accounts receivable financing arrangement among AMD, certain AMD subsidiaries and the IBM Parties. We adjusted the resulting amount of $332 million by subtracting capital expenditures, which were $79 million for the first six months of 2010. We have various supplier agreements with the IBM Parties pursuant to which we sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because we do not recognize revenue until our distributors sell our products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, we classify funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, we classify these funds as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, we reduce the distributors accounts receivable and the corresponding debt, resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because we do not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributors payment is never reflected in our cash flows from operating activities. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, we believe that treating the payments from our distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if we actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt to the IBM Parties is more reflective of the economic substance of our financing arrangement with the IBM Parties. We calculate and communicate adjusted free cash flow because our management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. Our calculation of adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. We believe that cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances as of June 26, 2010, anticipated cash flow from operations and available external financing will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures over the next twelve months. We anticipate that aggregate consolidated capital expenditures for the remaining two quarters of 2010 will be approximately $81 million. On July 26, 2010 we announced the commencement of a cash tender offer for up to $800 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6.00% Notes. We intend to finance the purchase of the 6.00% Notes tendered in the tender offer with the net proceeds from the August 2010 private offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2020 and existing cash. We believe that in the event additional funding is required, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, we cannot assure that such funding will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Over the longer term, should additional funding be required, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. However, recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies. While global economic conditions have improved since the second half of 2009, there can be no assurance that conditions will continue to improve, and they could worsen. If market conditions do not continue to improve or deteriorate, it may limit our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, on favorable terms or at all, resulting in adverse effects on our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. 33 Table of Contents Auction Rate Securities As a result of the uncertainties in the credit markets all of our auction rate securities (ARS) were negatively affected and auctions for these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. While many of these securities continue to be illiquid, there have been no defaults, and we have received all interest payments as they became due. As of June 26, 2010, the par value of our ARS was $117 million, with an estimated fair value of $108 million. This amount includes approximately $44 million par value ($39 million fair value) of non-UBS student loan ARS, $37 million par value ($34 million fair value) of municipal and corporate ARS and $36 million par value ($35 million fair value) of UBS student loan ARS. Total ARS, at fair value, represented 6% of our total investment portfolio as of June 26, 2010. In October 2008, UBS AG (UBS) offered to repurchase all of the ARS that we purchased from UBS prior to February 13, 2008. We accepted this offer. From June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell, at par, these ARS to UBS. As of June 26, 2010, these securities are classified as marketable securities. In addition, UBS redeemed at par $25 million and $33 million of these ARS during the second quarter and first six months of 2010, respectively. During the second quarter of 2010, the issuers tendered $15 million par value of the non-UBS student loan ARS for $14 million. The net carrying amount of these ARS was $13 million and we recorded a gain of approximately $1 million in other income (expense), net. Given these tender activities, and the fact that the secondary market for these securities has become more liquid and with pricing generally similar to our carrying value, we reclassified the remaining holdings of our non-UBS student loan ARS with carrying value of $39 million (par value $44 million) from other assets to marketable securities during the second quarter of 2010. We have the intent and believe we have the ability to sell these securities within the next 12 months. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $75 million in the first six months of 2010. Net income of $214 million was adjusted for non-cash charges consisting primarily of $303 million from the application of the equity method of accounting for our investment in GF, $200 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $43 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $17 million of interest expense related to our 6.00% Notes and 8.125% Notes. These charges were offset by a one-time, non-cash gain of $325 million related to the deconsolidation of GF, a net gain on sale of marketable securities of $8 million and amortization of foreign grants of $4 million. The net changes in operating assets at June 26, 2010 compared to December 26, 2009 included an increase in accounts receivable of $388 million, which included the non-cash impact of our financing arrangements with the IBM Parties. During the first six months of 2010, the IBM Parties collected approximately $407 million from our distributor customers pursuant to these arrangements. Without considering the collection by the IBM Parties of the accounts receivables that we sold to them, our accounts receivables decreased $19 million. This decrease was primarily due to timing of sales and collections during the first six months of 2010. Excluding the effects of deconsolidation, there was also an increase in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other of $4 million, primarily due to the timing of interest payments and restructuring payments. Accounts payable to GF decreased by $63 million due to the timing of payments during the first six months of 2010. Net cash used in operating activities was $535 million in the first six months of 2009. Net loss of $749 million was adjusted for non-cash charges consisting primarily of $562 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $40 million of stock-based compensation expense and $46 million of interest expense, primarily related to GFs Class A Notes and Class B Notes. These charges were offset by a net gain of $114 million related to our repurchase of an aggregate of $158 million principal amount of our 6.00% Notes for $57 million in cash and $15 million principal amount of our 5.75% Notes for $9 million in cash, a gain of $28 million from the sale of certain Handheld assets and $53 million related to the amortization of foreign grants and allowance income. The net changes in operating assets at June 27, 2009 compared to December 27, 2008 included an increase in accounts receivable of $295 million which includes the non-cash impact of our financing arrangement with the IBM Parties. During the six months ended June 27, 2009, the IBM Parties collected approximately $251 million from our distributor customers pursuant to these arrangements. Without considering the collection by the IBM Parties of the accounts receivables that we sold to them, our accounts receivables increased $44 million primarily due to timing of sales and collections within the first six months of 2009. There was also a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $181 million, primarily due to lower purchases reflecting the effect of our cost cutting efforts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $699 million in the first six months of 2010. The cash flow effect of the deconsolidation of GF was $904 million. In addition, we had a net cash outflow of $79 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment partially offset by a net cash inflow of $241 million from the sale of available-for-sale securities and $25 million from the sale of trading securities. 34 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $496 million in the first six months of 2009 primarily as a result of a net cash outflow of $364 million for the purchase of available-for-sale securities and $196 million used to purchase property, plant and equipment, of which $164 million related to property, plant and equipment attributable to the Foundry segment. This was partially offset by $58 million of proceeds from sale of certain Handheld assets. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $201 million in the first six months of 2010 primarily as a result of proceeds of $394 million from our financing arrangements with the IBM Parties, $30 million from a revolving credit facility entered into between our subsidiary, AMD Products (China) Co. Ltd., and China Merchant Bank (AMD China Revolving Credit Line), $11 million of grants from the Canadian government for research and development activities related to our Fusion products and $7 million from the exercise of employee stock options. These amounts were partially offset by payments of $209 million to repurchase $216 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes and $30 million to the lender under the AMD China Revolving Credit Line. Net cash provided by financing activities was $2 billion in the first six months of 2009 primarily as a result of proceeds of $2.1 billion from the issuance of GFs Class A Notes, Class B Notes, Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares, of which $1.4 billion constituted cash proceeds to GF, proceeds of $254 million from our financing arrangements with the IBM Parties, proceeds of $125 million from the sale of 58 million shares of AMD common stock and warrants to purchase 35 million shares of AMD common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share to West Coast Hitech. L.P. (WCH) in connection with the closing of the GF manufacturing joint venture, and proceeds from grants and allowances from the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of Saxony of $39 million for GFs Dresden manufacturing facilities. These amounts were partially offset by payments to Leipziger Messe of $180 million to repurchase its partnership interests in AMD Fab 36 KG, $67 million related to the guaranteed rate of return on those partnership interests and $10 million related to a call option premium to Leipziger Messe for the early repurchase of its partnership interests. Net cash provided by financing activities was also partially offset by payments of $57 million to repurchase $158 million principal amount of our 6.00% Notes and $9 million to repurchase $15 million principal amount of our 5.75% Notes. During the first six months of 2010 and the first six months of 2009, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. Therefore, we did not record any related financing cash flows. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual cash obligations, as of June 26, 2010, and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: Contractual Obligations Payment due by period Total Remaining 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and beyond (In millions) 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 $ 485 $ $ $ 485 $ $ $ 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (1) 1,580 1,580 8.125% Senior Notes due 2017 (1) 500 500 AMD China Revolving Credit Line 15 15 Other long-term liabilities 37 17 15 3 1 1 Aggregate interest obligation (2) 925 82 163 154 135 135 256 Capital lease obligations (3) 39 3 5 6 6 6 13 Operating leases 183 27 30 25 22 20 59 Purchase obligations (4) 449 341 55 38 15 Total contractual obligations (5) $ 4,213 $ 468 $ 270 $ 723 $ 181 $ 162 $ 2,409 (1) Represents aggregate par value of the notes, without the effect of associated discounts. (2) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding capital lease obligations. Also excludes non-cash amortization of debt discounts on the 8.125% Notes and the 6.00% Notes. (3) Includes principal and imputed interest. 35 Table of Contents (4) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on volume or type of services we require. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Also, purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. This amount does not include estimates of future obligations beyond 2013 or our future obligations to GF under the wafer supply agreement, which we expect will continue to be material. See Purchase Obligations, below. (5) Does not include $500 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2020 that we issued on August 4, 2010 or the impact of the cash tender offer we commenced on July 26, 2010 for up to $800 million of our 6.00% Notes, which we expect to close on August 20, 2010. 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 On August 14, 2007, we issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Notes. The 5.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year beginning February 15, 2008 until the maturity date of August 15, 2012. The terms of the 5.75% Notes are governed by an Indenture (the 5.75% Indenture), dated as of August 14, 2007, by and between us and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee. In 2009, we repurchased $1,015 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 5.75% Notes for $1,002 million in cash. As of June 26, 2010, the remaining outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 5.75% Notes was $485 million. The 5.75% Notes will be convertible, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of the 5.75% Notes, into shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 49.6771 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 5.75% Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $20.13 per share. This initial conversion price represents a premium of 50% relative to the last reported sale price of our common stock on August 8, 2007 (the trading date preceding the date of pricing of the 5.75% Notes) of $13.42 per share. This initial conversion rate will be adjusted for certain anti-dilution events. In addition, the conversion rate will be increased in the case of corporate events that constitute a fundamental change (as defined in the 5.75% Indenture) of AMD under certain circumstances. Holders of the 5.75% Notes may require us to repurchase the 5.75% Notes for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the 5.75% Indenture) or a termination of trading (as defined in the 5.75% Indenture). Additionally, an event of default (as defined in the 5.75% Indenture) may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 5.75% Notes. The 5.75% Notes rank equally in right of payment with our existing and future senior debt and senior in right of payment to all of our future subordinated debt. The 5.75% Notes rank junior in right of payment to all our existing and future senior secured debt to the extent of the collateral securing such debt and are structurally subordinated to all existing and future debt and liabilities of our subsidiaries. We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the remaining amount of our 5.75% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer, when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 On April 27, 2007, we issued $2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Notes. The 6.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on May 1 and November 1 of each year beginning November 1, 2007 until the maturity date of May 1, 2015. The terms of the 6.00% Notes are governed by an Indenture (the 6.00% Indenture) dated April 27, 2007, by and between us and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee. In 2008 and 2009, we repurchased $60 million and $344 million, respectively in principal amount of our 6.00% Notes for $21 million and $161 million, respectively. In the first six months of 2010, we repurchased $216 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes for $209 million. As of June 26, 2010, the remaining outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes was $1,580 million. On July 26, 2010 we announced the commencement of a cash tender offer for up to $800 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6.00% Notes. We intend to finance the purchase of the 6.00% Notes tendered in the tender offer with the net proceeds from the August 2010 private offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2020 and existing cash. The tender offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on August 20, 2010, unless extended or earlier terminated by us. Holders who validly tender, and do not validly withdraw, their 6.00% Notes on or prior to the expiration date will be entitled to receive $1,000 for each $1,000 principal amount of 6.00% Notes purchased in the tender offer, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of payment for the 6.00% Notes accepted for payment. Tenders of 6.00% Notes must be made on or prior to the expiration date, and 6.00% Notes may be withdrawn at any time on or prior to the expiration date. 36 Table of Contents To the extent that acceptances of all validly tendered notes would require us to purchase more than $800 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Notes in connection with the tender offer, we will allocate acceptances on a pro rata basis among the tendering holders. The tender offer is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. Full details of the terms and conditions of the tender offer are included in the Offer to Purchase, dated July 26, 2010, and our Schedule TO which have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Upon the occurrence of certain events described in the 6.00% Indenture, the 6.00% Notes will be convertible into cash up to the principal amount, and if applicable, into shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 6.00% Notes in respect of any conversion value above the principal amount, based on an initial conversion rate of 35.6125 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 6.00% Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $28.08 per share. This initial conversion price represents a premium of 100% relative to the last reported sale price of our common stock on April 23, 2007 (the trading date preceding the date of pricing of the 6.00% Notes) of $14.04 per share. The conversion rate will be adjusted for certain anti-dilution events. In addition, the conversion rate will be increased in the case of corporate events that constitute a fundamental change (as defined in the 6.00% Indenture) under certain circumstances. Holders of the 6.00% Notes may require us to repurchase the 6.00% Notes for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or a termination of trading (as defined in the 6.00% Indenture). Additionally, an event of default (as defined in the 6.00% Indenture) may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 6.00% Notes. The 6.00% Notes rank equally with our existing and future senior debt and are senior to all of our future subordinated debt. The 6.00% Notes rank junior to all of our existing and future senior secured debt to the extent of the collateral securing such debt and are structurally subordinated to all existing and future debt and liabilities of our subsidiaries. We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the balance of our 6.00% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer, when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. 8.125% Senior Notes Due 2017 On November 30, 2009, we issued $500 million of 8.125% Notes at a discount of 10.204%. The 8.125% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year beginning June 15, 2010 until the maturity date of December 15, 2017. The discount of $51 million is recorded as contra debt and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the 8.125% Notes using the effective interest method. The 8.125% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 8.125% Indenture) dated November 30, 2009 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. At any time (which may be more than once) before December 15, 2012, we can redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 8.125% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to not greater than 108.125% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to December 15, 2013, we may redeem some or all of the 8.125% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make whole premium (as defined in the 8.125% Indenture). From December 15, 2013, we may redeem the 8.125% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: Period Price as Percentage of Principal Amount Beginning on December 15, 2013 through December 14, 2014 104.063 % Beginning on December 15, 2014 through December 14, 2015 102.031 % and On December 15, 2015 thereafter 100.000 % Holders have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of our 8.125% Notes in the event that we undergo a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the 8.125% Notes (the 8.125% Indenture) at a repurchase price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Additionally, an event of default (as defined in the 8.125% Indenture) may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 8.125% Notes. The 8.125% Indenture contains certain covenants that limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, from: incurring additional indebtedness, except specified permitted debt; paying dividends and making other restricted payments; making certain investments if an event of a default exists, or if specified financial conditions are not satisfied; 37 Table of Contents creating or permitting certain liens; creating or permitting restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; using the proceeds from sales of assets; entering into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and consolidating, merging or selling our assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the 8.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or private negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer, when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 On August 4, 2010, we issued $500 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2020 (the 7.75% Notes). The 7.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February 1 and August 1 of each year beginning February 1, 2011 until the maturity date of August 1, 2020. The 7.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.75% Indenture) dated August 4, 2010 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. We intend to use the net proceeds from this offering of approximately $490 million, along with existing cash, to purchase up to $800 million of our 6.00% Notes validly tendered pursuant to our tender offer for such notes, as described above. At any time (which may be more than once) before August 1, 2013, we can redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.75% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to not greater than 107.75% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to August 1, 2015, we may redeem some or all of the 7.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make whole premium (as defined in the 7.75% Indenture). From August 1, 2015, we may redeem the 7.75% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: Period Price as Percentage of Principal Amount Beginning on August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016 103.875 % Beginning on August 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017 102.583 % Beginning on August 1, 2017 through July 31, 2018 101.292 % and on August 1, 2018 thereafter 100.000 % Holders have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of our 7.75% Notes in the event that we undergo a change of control, as defined in the 7.75% Indenture at a repurchase price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Additionally, an event of default (as defined in the 7.75% Indenture) may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 7.75% Notes. The 7.75% Indenture contains certain covenants that limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, from: incurring additional indebtedness, except specified permitted debt; paying dividends and making other restricted payments; making certain investments if an event of a default exists, or if specified financial conditions are not satisfied; creating or permitting certain liens; creating or permitting restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; using the proceeds from sales of assets; entering into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and consolidating, merging or selling our assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the 7.75% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or private negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer, when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. 38 Table of Contents The agreements governing our 5.75% Notes, 6.00% Notes, 8.125% Notes and 7.75% Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above include $20 million related to employee benefit obligations and $17 million of payments due under certain software and technology licenses that will be paid through 2013 and 2015, respectively. Other long-term liabilities exclude amounts recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet that do not require us to make cash payments, which as of June 26, 2010, primarily consisted of $21 million of deferred gains resulting from the sale and leaseback of certain of our facilities. Other long-term liabilities also exclude $94 million of non-current unrecognized tax benefits, which are included in the caption Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 26, 2010. Included in the non-current unrecognized tax benefits is a potential cash payment of approximately $3 million that could be payable by us upon settlement with a taxing authority. We have not included this amount in the contractual obligations table above as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of any settlement with the respective taxing authority, if any. Capital Lease Obligations As of June 26, 2010, we had aggregate outstanding capital lease obligations of $31 million for one of our facilities in Canada, which is payable in monthly installments through 2017. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities, including our executive offices in Sunnyvale, California, and in some jurisdictions we lease the land on which these facilities are built, under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2018. Certain manufacturing and office equipment is leased for terms ranging from 1 to 5 years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of June 26, 2010 were $183 million, of which $20 million is accrued as a liability for certain facilities that were included in our 2002 and 2008 restructuring plans. These payments will be made through 2012. Purchase Obligations Total non-cancelable purchase obligations as of June 26, 2010 were $449 million for periods through 2013. These purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. However, this amount does not include our purchase obligations to GF under the wafer supply agreement. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our purchase obligations beyond 2013. We currently estimate that we will pay GF approximately $1.5 billion through the end of the second quarter of 2011 for wafer purchases and reimbursement for research and development under the wafer supply agreement. This estimate is based on current demand expectations which can change. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our purchase obligations to GF beyond the next twelve months, but we expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Receivable Financing Arrangement The contractual obligations table above excludes the amounts we received in connection with our accounts receivable financing arrangement with the IBM Parties because we are not required to make cash payments pursuant to the terms of the arrangement. For the first six months of 2010, we received proceeds of approximately $394 million from the IBM Parties, and the IBM Parties collected approximately $407 million from our distributor customers participating in the program. As of June 26, 2010, $143 million was outstanding under these agreements governing the accounts receivable financing arrangement. This amount appears in Other short-term obligations on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees of Indebtedness Not Recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Fab 36 Guarantee In connection with the consummation of the GF manufacturing joint venture transaction on March 2, 2009, the terms of the 700 million euro Term Loan Facility Agreement among AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, as borrower, and a consortium of banks led by Dresdner Bank AG, as lenders, and other related agreements (collectively, the Fab 36 Loan Agreements) were amended to allow for the transfer of our former 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility and its affiliated companies to GF. In addition, we also amended the terms of the related guarantee agreement such that AMD and GF are joint guarantors of the borrowers obligations to the lenders under the Fab 36 Loan Agreements. However, if we are called upon to make any payments under the guarantee agreement, GF has separately agreed to indemnify us for the full amount of such payments. As of June 26, 2010, the total 39 Table of Contents amount outstanding under the Fab 36 Term Loan was $321 million, and the rate of interest on the loan was 2.3%. This loan is repayable by GF in quarterly installments which terminate in March 2011. As of June 26, 2010, we were in compliance with our covenants under the guarantee agreement. AMTC and BAC Guarantees The Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH & Co. KG (AMTC) and Maskhouse Building Administration GmbH & Co. KG (BAC) are joint ventures initially formed for the purpose of constructing and operating an advanced photomask facility in Dresden, Germany. AMTC provides advanced photomasks for use in manufacturing our microprocessors. As of December 26, 2009, the joint venture limited partners were AMD and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Qimonda AG, who had been one of the limited partners in these joint ventures, was expelled in March 2009 because of its commencement of insolvency proceeding in January 2009. In January 2010, we signed binding agreements to transfer our limited partnership interests in the AMTC and BAC to GF. On March 31, 2010, our limited partnership interests in AMTC and BAC were effectively transferred to an affiliate of GF. Concurrent with the transfer, the BAC term loan and the AMTC revolving credit facility along with related documents were amended. In connection with the amendments to the BAC term loan, AMTC assumed all of Toppan Photomasks Germany GmbHs (Toppan Germany) rental obligations and became the sole lessee of the BAC facility. Pursuant to the amended AMTC rental contract guarantee, we, Toppan Germany and GF guarantee AMTCs rental obligations relating to a portion of the BAC facility. The remaining portion of the BAC facility is subject to a separate lease agreement, whereby Toppan Germany and GF agree to guarantee AMTCs payment obligations to the BAC. Our portion of the guarantee corresponds with our exposure under the initial guarantee agreement and is made on a joint and several basis with GF. Moreover, GF has separately agreed to indemnify us under certain circumstances if it is called upon to make any payments under the AMTC rental contract guarantee. As of June 26, 2010, the joint and several guarantee of the rental obligation was $8 million. In connection with the amendment to the AMTC revolving credit facility, the guarantee agreement was amended so that we and GF are joint and several guarantors of 50% of AMTCs outstanding loan balance under the AMTC revolving credit facility. In the event we are called upon to make any payments under the guarantee agreement, GF has separately agreed to indemnify us so long as certain conditions are met. As of June 26, 2010, the amount outstanding under this loan was $43 million and the joint and several guarantee obligations were $22 million.