ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMDs products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMDs future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMDs future purchases from GF; AMD's expected $100 million payment to GF and the expected timing of such payment; AMD's quarterly payments to GF beginning in 2017 based on volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry; final net cash proceeds from the joint venture transaction between AMD and Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; AMD's expected completion of its restructuring plan announced in October 2015 (the 2015 Restructuring Plan); that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMDs cash and cash equivalents balances together with the availability under that certain secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMDs operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMDs ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suit will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; and AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporations dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMDs ability to compete effectively; We are party to a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to manufacture products at GF with certain exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMDs manufacturing requirements, its business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMDs business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMDs products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMDs business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMDs receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMDs business and operating results; the markets in which AMDs products are sold are highly competitive; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMDs notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMDs products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMDs products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMDs products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMDs ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporations support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMDs products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMDs reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMDs inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its product development programs; our issuance to West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH) of warrants to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock, if and when exercised, will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders, and the conversion of the 2.125% Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that 24 have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business in the future; acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMDs business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMDs intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMDs operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMDs products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; the completion and impact of the 2015 Restructuring Plan, its transformation initiatives and any future restructuring actions could adversely affect it; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMDs worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMDs products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMDs inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMDs business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors beginning on page 43 and Financial Condition beginning on page 35 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 25 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 26, 2015 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2015. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, us, our or AMD), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 compared to the quarter and nine months ended September 26, 2015 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue in the third quarter of 2016 was $1.3 billion, a 23% increase compared to the third quarter of 2015. The year over year increase was primarily due to a 11% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 31% increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our notebook microprocessors and GPU products, partially offset by lower sales of our desktop microprocessors and chipset products. The increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily driven by higher sales of our semi-custom SoCs. During the third quarter, we also continued to focus on achieving our product milestones. In August 2016, we expanded our family of Polaris GPUs with the launch of two new Radeon RX graphics cards. The Radeon RX 460 includes a number of new features to mainstream GPUs and has been designed for full HD eSports gaming, while the Radeon RX 470 brings leadership gaming performance and premium VR experiences to mainstream price points. Cash and cash equivalents as of September 24, 2016 were $1.3 billion, compared to $957 million as of June 25, 2016. Total debt as of the end of the third quarter of 2016 was $1.6 billion, a decrease from $2.2 billion as of the end of the second quarter of 2016. During the third quarter of 2016, we issued $690 million of common stock and $700 million aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes). The $690 million of common stock included $90 million from the exercise of an underwriters' option to purchase 15 million additional shares of common stock. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock and the 2.125% Notes to pay $226 million of our secured revolving line of credit and repurchase an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 (6.75% Notes), 7.75% Senior Notes due 2020 (7.75% Notes), 7.50% Senior Notes due 2022 (7.75% Notes) and 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 (7.00% Notes). Early in the fourth quarter of 2016, we redeemed the remaining $208 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes and as a result, we no longer have any 7.75% Notes outstanding. Also early in the fourth quarter of 2016, the underwriters exercised an option to purchase $105 million principal amount of 2.125% Notes. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the Wafer Supply Agreement (the WSA) with GlobalFoundries Inc. (GF). The Sixth Amendment modifies certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. Also, in connection with and in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) pursuant to which WCH received the right to purchase up to 75 million shares of our common stock. GLOBALFOUNDRIES 26 Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April 16, 2015, we entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA (the Fifth Amendment). The primary effect of the Fifth Amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of our microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to us during the 2015 calendar year. Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modifies certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. AMD and GF agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides us a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives us greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across our product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, we will pay GF $100 million, which will be paid in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, we also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, AMD and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If we do not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, we will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the our actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on our current business and market expectations and take into account the limited waiver we have received for certain products. AMD and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 were $186 million and $288 million , respectively. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the nine months ended September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 were $479 million and $704 million , respectively. Our currently expected purchases from GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $257 million for the remainder of fiscal 2016. We expect that our future purchases from GF under the WSA, which is in place until 2024, will continue to be material. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant under the Warrant Agreement is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised under the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement shall not exceed 50 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of our outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded a charge of $340 million , consisting of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement issued in consideration of the Sixth Amendment. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with WCH, our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd., formerly AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd., formerly Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., to affiliates of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (NFME), to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, NFMEs affiliates 27 own 85% of the equity interests in each ATMP JV while certain of our subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. We have no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. As a result of the transaction, we received approximately $346 million , including purchase price adjustments, in net cash proceeds for selling 85% of the equity interest in each of Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. These proceeds, net of certain transaction costs, were included in investing activities on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September 24, 2016. As a result of certain purchase price adjustments, we recognized a charge of $4 million in the third quarter of 2016, which resulted in our cumulative pre-tax gain on sale of the 85% equity interest in ATMP JV of $146 million for the nine months ended September 24, 2016, which was recognized within Other income (expense), net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The net pre-tax gain reflects the excess of the sum of net cash proceeds and fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV over the sum of the net book values of our former subsidiaries and other closing costs directly attributed to the divestiture. The above gain includes $11 million in excess of fair value of our retained interest over the corresponding net book values. In determining the fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV, we used quoted prices from comparable bids for this transaction. We also considered other factors including the control premium and the amount of consideration received for the portion sold. We account for our equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to our significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of September 24, 2016 , the carrying value of our investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $60 million . Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is our related party. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) services to us. We currently pay the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 amounted to approximately $107 million and $173 million , respectively. Our payable to the ATMP JV, as of September 24, 2016, was $144 million . During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded $5 million and $8 million , respectively, of loss in Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, which includes certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of our patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs operations. We have no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs primary purpose is to support our expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. We licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and we will not consolidate either of these entities. We account for our investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will recognize income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recognized $24 million and $57 million , respectively, of operating income related to the Licensed IP. Our total exposure to losses through our investment into the China JVs is limited to our investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of September 24, 2016 . Our share in the net losses of the China JVs for the quarter and nine months ended September 28 24, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of our investment in the China JVs. As of September 24, 2016 , the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2015 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 29 Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on managements judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete GPUs and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom SoC products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other special charges, net, charge related to the Sixth Amendment to the WSA with GF and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks. The nine months ended September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 each consisted of 39 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 (In millions) Net revenue: Computing and Graphics $ 472 $ 424 $ 1,367 $ 1,335 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 835 637 1,799 1,698 Total net revenue $ 1,307 $ 1,061 $ 3,166 $ 3,033 Operating income (loss): Computing and Graphics $ (66 ) $ (181 ) $ (217 ) $ (403 ) Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 136 84 236 156 All Other (363 ) (61 ) (388 ) (185 ) Total operating loss $ (293 ) $ (158 ) $ (369 ) $ (432 ) Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $472 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by 11% , compared to net revenue of $424 million in the third quarter of 2015 , primarily as a result of an 8% increase in unit shipments and a 2% increase in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products and GPU products, partially offset by lower unit shipments of our desktop microprocessor products and chipset products. Unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products increased primarily due to higher demand for our 6th Generation and 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. The increase of unit shipments of our GPU products was primarily driven by demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. The increase in average selling price was primarily attributable to an increase in average selling price of our notebook microprocessor products and GPU products, partially offset by a decrease in average selling price of our desktop microprocessor products and our chipset products due to a shift in our product mix. Average selling price of our notebook products increased due to a higher mix of sales of our 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. Average selling price of our GPU products primarily increased due a higher mix of sales of our higher priced Polaris architecture-based GPU products. 30 Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1,367 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by 2% , compared to $1,335 million in the first nine months of 2015 , as a result of a 3% increase in unit shipments, partially offset by a 2% decrease in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our GPU products and notebook microprocessor products, partially offset by lower unit shipment of our desktop microprocessor and chipset products. The increase of unit shipments of our GPU products was primarily driven by demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. Unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products increased primarily due to higher demand for our 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. The decrease in average selling price was primarily attributable to a decrease in average selling price of our chipset products due to an unfavorable shift in our product mix, partially offset by an increase in average selling price of our AIB products primarily due to strong demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $66 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to an operating loss of $181 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a decrease in cost of sales and operating expenses. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower manufacturing cost in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 and an inventory write-down of $52 million as a result of lower than anticipated demand for primarily older-generation APU products in the third quarter of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $217 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to operating loss of $403 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a decrease in operating expenses and in cost of sales. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower manufacturing cost in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 and an inventory write-down of $52 million as a result of lower than anticipated demand for primarily older-generation APU products in the first nine months of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $835 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by 31% compared to net revenue of $637 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase in net revenue was primarily due to higher unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products. The increase in unit shipments was primarily driven by our customers new product introductions. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $1,799 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by 6% compared to net revenue of $1,698 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products and an increase in our NRE revenue. The increase in unit shipments was primarily driven by our customers new product introductions. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $136 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to operating income of $84 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a $24 million IP licensing gain related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, partially offset by an increase in cost of sales and operating expenses. Cost of sales increased primarily due to higher unit shipments in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015, partially offset by an inventory write-down of $13 million in the third quarter of 2015. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $236 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to operating income of $156 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, a $57 million IP licensing gain recorded in the first nine months of 2016 related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, and a decrease in cost of sales, in part due to the absence of a technology node transition charge of $33 million recorded in the first nine months of 2015, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. All Other All Other operating loss of $363 million in the third quarter of 2016 included a charge of $340 million consisting of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement and stock-based compensation expense of $23 million. All Other operating loss of $61 million in the third quarter of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $48 million and stock-based compensation expense of $13 million. All Other operating loss of $388 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily included a charge of $340 million comprised of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement and stock-based compensation expense of $57 million, partially offset by restructuring reversals of $10 million. All Other operating loss of $185 million in the first nine months of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $135 31 million, stock-based compensation expense of $47 million and $3 million related to amortization of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring and other special charges, net of $135 million included $76 million related to our decision to exit from the dense server systems business, $41 million related to our 2015 Restructuring Plan and $18 million related to our 2014 Restructuring Plan. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 73% in the third quarter of 2016 and 75% in the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our semi-custom SoC products. International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 78% in the first nine months of 2016 and 75% in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase in international sales as percentage of net revenue was primarily driven by higher proportion of revenue from international sales of our semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, Income Taxes and Equity in Income (Loss) of ATMP JV The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 (In millions except for percentages) Cost of sales $ 1,248 $ 822 $ 2,519 $ 2,236 Gross margin 59 239 647 797 Gross margin percentage 5 % 23 % 20 % 26 % Research and development 259 241 744 718 Marketing, general and administrative 117 108 339 373 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 3 Restructuring and other special charges, net 48 (10 ) 135 Licensing gain (24 ) (57 ) Interest expense (41 ) (39 ) (122 ) (119 ) Other income (expense), net (63 ) 87 (3 ) Loss before equity loss and income taxes (397 ) (197 ) (404 ) (554 ) Provision for income taxes 4 34 4 Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV $ (5 ) $ $ (8 ) $ Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 5% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 23% in the third quarter of 2015 . Gross margin in the third quarter of 2016 was adversely impacted by a charge of $340 million consisting of a $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the value of the warrant of $240 million under the Warrant Agreement. The impact of the charge accounted for 26 gross margin percentage points. Gross margin in the third quarter of 2015 was adversely impacted by an inventory write-down of $65 million, which was primarily the result of lower anticipated demand for older-generation APUs. The impact of the write-down accounted for six gross margin percentage points. In the absence of these charges in 2016 and 2015, gross margin would have increased by two percentage points, primarily driven by improved average selling price of our notebook microprocessor products. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 20% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 26% in the first nine months of 2015 . Gross margin in the first nine months of 2016 was adversely impacted by a charge of $340 million comprised of a 100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the value of the warrant of $240 million under the Warrant Agreement. The impact of the charge accounted for 11 gross margin percentage points. Gross margin in the first nine months of 2015 was adversely impacted by an inventory write-down of $65 million, which was primarily the result of lower anticipated demand for older-generation APUs and a technology node transition charge of $33 million. The impact of the write-down accounted for two gross margin percentage points and the technology node transition charge accounted for one gross margin percentage point. In 32 the absence of these charges, the gross margin would have increased by two percentage points, primarily driven by improved mix of semi-custom SoC products. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $259 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $18 million , or 7% , compared to $241 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $40 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and an $8 million increase attributable to our All Other category, partially offset by a $30 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to a $38 million increase in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category increased primarily due to an $8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $29 million decrease in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses of $744 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $26 million , or 4% , compared to $718 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $93 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and a $7 million increase attributable to our All Other category, partially offset by a $74 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to an $85 million increase in product engineering and design costs and an $8 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category increased primarily due to a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to an $82 million decrease in product engineering and design costs, partially offset by an $8 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $117 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $9 million , or 8% , compared to $108 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $6 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and a $2 million increase attributable to our All Other category. Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment primarily due to a $3 million increase in sales and marketing activities and a $3 million increase in other general and administrative expenses. Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased attributable to our All Other category primarily due to a $2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $339 million in the first nine months of 2016 decreased by $34 million , or 9% , compared to $373 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $41 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment primarily due to a $23 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $17 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses, partially offset by a $6 million increase attributable to our All Other category primarily due to a $4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. In the first nine months of 2015 , we recorded a $41 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $31 million for severance and benefit costs, $1 million for facilities-related costs and $9 million intangible-asset related-charges. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the fourth quarter 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 24, 2016 : 33 Severance and related benefits Other exit related costs Total (In millions) Balance as of December 26, 2015 $ 14 $ $ 14 Charges (reversals), net (1 ) (1 ) Cash payments (8 ) (8 ) Balance as of September 24, 2016 $ 5 $ $ 5 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. In the first nine months of 2015 , we recorded an $18 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $5 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million for severance and benefit costs and $9 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016 , we recorded a restructuring charge reversal of $7 million , of which $5 million related to facilities costs associated with a lease amendment which reduced a lease liability previously accrued under this plan. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 24, 2016 : Severance and related benefits Other exit related costs Total (In millions) Balance as of December 26, 2015 $ 5 $ 15 $ 20 Charges (reversals), net (2 ) (7 ) (9 ) Cash payments (1 ) (5 ) (6 ) Non-cash charges Balance as of September 24, 2016 $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of our strategy to simplify and sharpen our investment focus, we exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, we recorded a charge of $76 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first nine months of 2015 . This charge included an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. We concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with our dense server systems business was fully impaired as we did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of our future products nor did we have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $7 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. We substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense of $41 million in the third quarter of 2016 was flat compared to the third quarter of 2015 . Interest expense of $122 million in the first nine months of 2016 was flat compared to the first nine months of 2015 . Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net of $63 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $63 million compared to $0 in the third quarter of 2015 primarily due to the $61 million total loss on debt repurchases and the $4 million adjustment to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV. Other income, net of $87 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $90 million compared to $3 million Other expense, net in the first nine months of 2015 primarily due to the net gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $146 million, partially offset by the $61 million total loss on debt repurchases. 34 Income Taxes In the third quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $4 million , consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations. For the nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $34 million , including $6 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, $5 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations and $4 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, we recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction (see Note 5. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture). We now apply the equity method of accounting to our 15% investment in the two former subsidiaries. Our share of applicable tax expense will be netted with the equity share of future profits or losses. In 2015, we recorded an income tax provision of $2 million related to the activities of the two former subsidiaries. We have not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the more likely than not criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. In the third quarter of 2015 , we did not record any income tax provision. For the nine months ended September 26, 2015 , we recorded an income tax provision of $4 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of September 24, 2016 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as of September 24, 2016 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits as of September 24, 2016 were $41 million . We do not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 September 24, 2016 September 26, 2015 (In millions) Cost of sales $ $ $ 1 $ 2 Research and development 15 7 34 27 Marketing, general and administrative 8 6 22 18 Stock-based compensation expense, net of tax of $0 $ 23 $ 13 $ 57 $ 47 For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $23 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $10 million compared to $13 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Stock-based compensation expense of $57 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $10 million compared to $47 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 24, 2016 , our cash and cash equivalents were $1.3 billion compared to $785 million as of December 26, 2015. The increase during the first nine months of 2016 was primarily due to the $681 million net proceeds from the newly issued 2.215% Notes, the $668 million net proceeds from selling 115 million shares of our common stock, the $346 million net proceeds from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, the $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs and 35 timing of accounts payable payments. The increase of the cash was partially offset by the repurchases of an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes for $848 million in cash, the repayments in aggregate of $230 million of our Secured Revolving Line of Credit, debt interest payments of $148 million and $56 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment in the first nine months of 2016. The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically was 97% as of September 24, 2016 , compared to 88% at December 26, 2015. Our debt obligations of $1.6 billion net of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes as of September 24, 2016 decreased compared to $2.2 billion at December 26, 2015. We believe our cash and cash equivalents balance along with our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $98 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $285 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating activities was primarily due to lower operating expenses including lower labor costs, as a result of restructuring actions and receipt of $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs, partially offset by timing of accounts payable payments and lower cash collections during the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 mainly due to timing. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $293 million in the first nine months of 2016 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $346 million from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, partially offset by a cash outflow of $56 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $179 million in the first nine months of 2015 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $235 million from purchases, sales and maturity of available for sale securities and $8 million of proceeds from sale of our building in Markham, Canada, partially offset by a cash outflow of $64 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $278 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily due to the $681 million net proceeds from the new issued 2.215% Notes, the $668 million net proceeds from selling 115 million shares of our common stock and the $12 million proceeds from issuance of common stock under stock-based compensation equity plans, partially offset by the repurchases of an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes for $848 million in cash and repayments in aggregate of $230 million of our Secured Revolving Line of Credit. Net cash provided by financing activities was $56 million in the first nine months of 2015 , primarily due to $100 million net proceeds from our Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings, of which $42 million was used to repay the remaining aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes during the second quarter of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. Therefore, we did not record any effects relating to financing cash flows for these periods. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of September 24, 2016 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: 36 Payments due by period as of September 24, 2016 (In millions) Total Remainder of 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and thereafter 6.75% Notes $ 196 $ $ $ $ 196 $ $ 7.75% Notes 208 208 7.50% Notes 350 350 7.00% Notes 475 475 2.125% Notes 700 700 Other long-term liabilities 97 9 45 35 6 2 Aggregate interest obligation (1) 702 26 106 106 99 91 274 Operating leases 393 13 46 47 44 43 200 Purchase obligations (2) 344 202 92 35 13 2 Obligations to GF (3) 3,199 257 650 748 764 780 Total contractual obligations (4) $ 6,664 $ 498 $ 903 $ 981 $ 1,151 $ 1,130 $ 2,001 (1) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs and the impacts of the interest rate swap agreements. (2) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. In addition, we have included in the table above obligations for software technology and licenses and IP licenses where payments are fixed and non-cancelable. (3) Includes our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2016 for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2017 through 2020. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond 2020 but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (4) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. 37 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Notes. Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March 1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make whole premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $404 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes. As of September 24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $196 million . 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 On August 4, 2010, we issued $500 million of our 7.75% Notes. Our 7.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February 1 and August 1 of each year beginning February 1, 2011 until the maturity date of August 1, 2020. Our 7.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.75% Indenture) dated August 4, 2010 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $242 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes. As of September 24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes was $208 million . On September 28, 2016, we redeemed the remaining $208 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes. 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August 15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Notes. Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year beginning February 15, 2013 until the maturity date of August 15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August 15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August 15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make whole premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $125 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes. As of September 24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $350 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00% Notes. The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July 1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a make whole premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: Period Price as Percentage of Principal Amount Beginning on July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 103.500 % Beginning on July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021 102.333 % Beginning on July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022 101.167 % On July 1, 2022 and thereafter 100.000 % 38 During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $25 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes. As of September 24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $475 million . 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, we issued $700 million in the aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes). Our 2.125% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017 . Our 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the measurement period) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the our common stock, at our election. We may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the notes. The conversion rate will initially be 125.0031 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00 per share of common stock). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If we undergo a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. As of September 24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes was $700 million. We also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase up an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised, and we issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes on September 28, 2016. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our 2.125% Notes, 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April 14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $75 million available for issuance of letters of credit, which remained unchanged from the loan and security agreement dated November 12, 2013, as amended on December 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable (90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified 39 reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million. The Secured Revolving Line of Credit matures on April 14, 2020 and is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. During the third quarter of 2016, we repaid the $226 million outstanding balance. As of September 24, 2016, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. At December 26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.00% . At September 24, 2016, the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had $21 million related to outstanding letters of credit and up to $395 million available for future borrowings. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of September 24, 2016 , we were in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes, 2.125% Notes and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 10, 2015, the Loan Parties entered into a first amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the First Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the First Amendment included the addition of exceptions to the liens and asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements, as well as the addition of certain definitions related thereto. Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April 29, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a second amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Second Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Second Amendment related to the expansion of the definition of permitted asset dispositions to include the sale or transfer of inventory to the ATMP JV pursuant to the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement between AMD and NFME. Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 21, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a third amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Third Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Third Amendment included the further expansion of the asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements. Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On September 7, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a fourth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Fourth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan agreement effected by the Fourth Amendment was to increase the dollar limit as set forth the definition related to certain supply chain finance arrangements. Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above primarily consists of $95 million of payments due under certain software and technology licenses that will be paid through 2020. Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above exclude amounts recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet that do not require us to make cash payments, which, as of September 24, 2016 , primarily consisted of $14 million 40 of deferred gains resulting from certain real estate transactions that occurred in Sunnyvale, California in 1998, in Markham, Ontario, Canada in 2015 and 2008 and in Singapore in 2013 and $12 million interest accretion for future payments related to software and technology licenses. Operating lease accruals of $5 million and deferred rent related to our facilities in Sunnyvale, California of $3 million are excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above as they are included in the operating leases obligations. Also excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above are $11 million deferred tax liabilities, $3 million non-current unrecognized tax benefits and $3 million of environmental reserves, which represent potential cash payments that could be payable by us upon settlements with the related authorities. We have not included these amounts in the contractual obligations table above because we cannot make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of the settlements with the related authorities, if any. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities and, in some jurisdictions, we lease the land on which our facilities are built under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of September 24, 2016 were $393 million , including $338 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas, Sunnyvale and Santa Clara, California, Markham, Canada, and Singapore. During the second quarter of 2016, we signed an amendment to the lease agreement associated with our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California so that the lease expires in December 2017. In connection with the amendment, the lease payments were reduced for 2017. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a 10 year operating lease to occupy 220,000 square feet of new office space in Santa Clara. Base rent obligation is estimated to commence in August 2017 and the total estimate base rent payments over the life of the lease are approximately $125 million . In addition to the base rent payments we will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for our share of operating expenses and tax obligation. We will also incur costs for capital projects on the new office space. We have the option to extend the term of the lease for an additional 2 five-year periods. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of September 24, 2016 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $344 million . Obligations to GF Our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2016 for wafer and research and development activities, and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2017 through 2020 are approximately $3.2 billion . We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 24, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 41