ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, designed, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMDs products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; expected seasonality trends; the nature and extent of AMDs future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMDs future purchases from GF; AMDs ability to meet its wafer purchase target; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMDs expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMDs PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; AMD s reliance on the JVs for ATMP services; that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMDs cash and cash equivalents balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (Secured Revolving Facility) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMDs operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMDs ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMDs expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMD s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; anticipated increase in costs related to IT network security; and a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMDs revenue in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporations dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMDs ability to compete effectively; AMD has a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to purchase all of its microprocessor and APU product requirements, and a certain portion of its GPU product requirements, manufactured at process nodes larger than 7 nanometer (nm) from GF with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMDs manufacturing requirements, AMDs business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMDs business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMDs products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMDs business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMDs receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMDs business and operating results; AMDs worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; AMDs products may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on AMD; IT outages, data loss, data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMDs intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business, reputation and operations; AMDs operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a large amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMDs notes and the Secured Revolving Facility impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect AMDs ability to operate its business; the markets in which AMDs products are sold are highly competitive; the conversion of the 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes) may dilute the ownership interest of AMDs existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of its common stock; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMDs products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMDs products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMDs products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMDs ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporations support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMDs products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMDs reliance on third-party distributors and add-in-board (AIB) partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill and technology license purchases; AMDs inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its business; in the event of a change 28 of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Facility, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Facility; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business in the future; Acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and/or investments could disrupt its business and/or dilute or adversely affect the price of its common stock; AMDs business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMDs products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; AMDs stock price is subject to volatility; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMDs products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMDs inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMDs business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors and the Financial Condition section set forth in "Part I, Item 2 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," (MD&A) and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 29 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo, Athlon, EPYC, Radeon, Ryzen and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft and Xbox One are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Vega and Zen are codenames for AMD architectures, and are not product names. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 , and for each of the three years for the period ended December 29, 2018 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 . Overview We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated into an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units (GPUs), datacenter and professional GPUs, and development services; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, us, our or AMD), including a discussion of our results of operations for the three and six months ended June 29, 2019 compared to the prior year periods , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. During the second quarter of 2019, we introduced a number of new products. We announced our 3rd Gen AMD Ryzen desktop processor based on our new "Zen 2" core architecture with a chiplet design approach. We also announced the availability of our AMD Ryzen 3000 Series desktop processors with Radeon graphics. We introduced our 2nd Gen AMD Ryzen Pro mobile processors with Radeon Vega Graphics and AMD Athlon PRO mobile processors with Radeon Vega Graphics for commercial notebook users. We launched AMD Radeon RX 5700 XT and RX 5700 graphic cards based on our new AMD RDNA gaming architecture in 7 nanometer (nm) process technology to power the latest AAA and eSports PC games. We added the AMD Ryzen Embedded R1000 SoC designed for applications such as digital displays, high performance edge computing and networking. Net revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was $1.53 billion , a 13% decrease compared to the prior year period . The decrease was primarily due to a 13% decrease in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 12% decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The decrease in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to lower sales of our Radeon channel products, and lower graphics channel memory sales caused primarily by the decline in blockchain-related demand, partially offset by higher demand for our Ryzen processors and datacenter GPUs. The decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily due to lower semi-custom revenue, partially offset by higher EPYC server processor revenue. Our operating income for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was $59 million compared to operating income of $153 million for the prior year period . Our net income for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was $35 million compared to net income of $116 million for the prior year period . Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 29, 2019 were $1.13 billion , compared to $1.16 billion as of December 29, 2018. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year and quarter to quarter, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. 30 Results of Operations We report our financial performance based on the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 10: Segment Reporting of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Financial Information of this Form 10-Q). Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. Historically, first quarter PC product sales have been generally lower than fourth quarter sales and, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles our sales pattern has reflected higher sales in the second and third quarters compared to the first and fourth quarters, although product transitions could impact these trends. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 (In millions) Net revenue: Computing and Graphics $ 940 $ 1,086 $ 1,771 $ 2,201 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 591 670 1,032 1,202 Total net revenue $ 1,531 $ 1,756 $ 2,803 $ 3,403 Operating income (loss): Computing and Graphics $ 22 $ 117 $ 38 $ 255 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom 89 69 157 83 All Other (52 ) (33 ) (98 ) (65 ) Total operating income $ 59 $ 153 $ 97 $ 273 Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $940 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 decreased by 13% , compared to net revenue of $1.1 billion for the prior year period, primarily as a result of lower graphics channel memory sales, partially offset by a 5% increase in average selling price. Unit shipments were flat due to an increase in Ryzen processor and datacenter GPU sales, offset by lower demand for our Radeon channel products caused primarily by the decline in blockchain-related demand. The increase in average selling price was driven by higher demand for our Ryzen processors and datacenter GPUs, partially offset by lower demand for our Radeon channel products. Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1.8 billion for the six months ended June 29, 2019 decreased by 20% , compared to net revenue of $2.2 billion for the prior year period, primarily as a result of a 4% decrease in unit shipments and lower graphics channel memory sales, partially offset by a 5% increase in average selling price. The decrease in unit shipments was primarily attributable to lower demand for our Radeon channel products caused primarily by the decline in blockchain-related demand, partially offset by higher demand for our Ryzen processors. The increase in average selling price was driven by higher demand for our Ryzen processors and datacenter GPUs, partially offset by lower demand for our Radeon channel products. Computing and Graphics operating income was $22 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 , compared to operating income of $ 117 million for the prior year period. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by lower sales and higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. Computing and Graphics operating income was $38 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 , compared to operating income of $255 million for the prior year period. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by lower sales and higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. 31 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $591 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 decreased by 12% , compared to net revenue of $670 million for the prior year period, primarily as a result of lower semi-custom product revenue, partially offset by higher sales of our EPYC server processors. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $1.0 billion for the six months ended June 29, 2019 decreased by 14% , compared to net revenue of $1.2 billion for the prior year period, primarily as a result of lower semi-custom product revenue, partially offset by higher sales of our EPYC server processors. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $89 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 compared to operating income of $69 million for the prior year period. The improvement in operating income was primarily due to higher EPYC server processor sales, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $157 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 compared to operating income of $83 million for the prior year period. The improvement in operating income was primarily due to a licensing gain of $60 million and higher EPYC server processor sales, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under Expenses below. All Other All Other operating loss of $52 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 consisted of $45 million of stock-based compensation expense and a $7 million contingent loss accrual on a legal matter. All Other operating loss of $33 million for the prior year period was related to stock-based compensation expense. All Other operating loss of $98 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 consisted of $86 million of stock-based compensation expense and a $12 million contingent loss accrual on a legal matter. All Other operating loss of $65 million for the prior year period was related to stock-based compensation expense. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 71% for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and 82% for the prior year period . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2019 compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by lower revenue from Taiwan-related sales of our products within the Computing and Graphics segment. International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 74% for the six months ended June 29, 2019 and 82% for the prior year period . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue for the six months ended June 29, 2019 compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by lower revenue from Taiwan-related sales of our products within the Computing and Graphics segment. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. 32 Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, Income Taxes and Equity Loss in investee The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 (In millions except for percentages) Cost of sales $ 910 $ 1,104 $ 1,661 $ 2,154 Gross profit 621 652 1,142 1,249 Gross margin percentage 41 % 37 % 41 % 37 % Research and development 373 357 746 700 Marketing, general and administrative 189 142 359 276 Licensing gain (60 ) Interest expense (25 ) (31 ) (52 ) (62 ) Other income (expense), net 3 1 (4 ) 2 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2 6 (11 ) 14 Equity loss in investee $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 41% for the three months ended June 29, 2019 , compared to 37% for the prior year period. The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by higher sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors with higher gross margin than the corporate average. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 41% for the six months ended June 29, 2019 , compared to 37% for the prior year period. The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by higher sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors with higher gross margin than the corporate average. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $373 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $16 million , or 4% , compared to $357 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense as well as product development costs in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segments. Research and development expenses of $746 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $46 million , or 7% , compared to $700 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in product development costs in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segments as well as an increase in stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $189 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $47 million , or 33% , compared to $142 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in go to market activities in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segments. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $359 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $83 million , or 30% , compared to $276 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in go to market activities in both the Computing and Graphics and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segments. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was $25 million , compared to $31 million for the prior year period . The decrease was primarily due to lower debt balances. Interest expense for the six months ended June 29, 2019 was $52 million , compared to $62 million for the prior year period . The decrease was primarily due to lower debt balances. 33 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net of $3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $2 million, compared to $1 million of Other income, net for the prior year period . The change from the prior year period was primarily due to a decrease in foreign exchange loss and an increase in interest income. Other expense, net of $4 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 increased by $6 million, compared to $2 million of Other income, net for the prior year period . The increase from the prior year period was primarily due to a $7 million increase in loss on extinguishment of debt, partially offset by $2 million of interest income. Provision (Benefit) For Income Taxes For the three months ended June 29, 2019 , we recorded an income tax provision of $2 million , consisting primarily of foreign income taxes in profitable locations. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 , we recorded an income tax provision of $6 million, consisting primarily of $5 million for U.S. income taxes. The reduction in the current quarter income tax provision was primarily attributed to the reduction in the U.S. income taxes, partially offset by an increase in foreign income taxes due to increased profitability. For the six months ended June 29, 2019 , we recorded an income tax benefit of $11 million, consisting primarily of a $13 million credit to U.S. income taxes due to the completion of certain internal tax structuring and $2 million of foreign income taxes in profitable locations. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , we recorded an income tax provision of $14 million, consisting primarily of $10 million for U.S. income taxes and $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations. The reduction in the year to date income tax provision was primarily attributed to the reduction in the U.S. income taxes, partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes due to increased profitability. 34 FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 29, 2019 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $1.13 billion , compared to $1.16 billion as of December 29, 2018 . The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically was 96% as of June 29, 2019 , compared to 88% as of December 29, 2018 . Our operating, investing and financing activities for the six months ended June 29, 2019 compared to the prior year period are as described below: Six Months Ended June 29, 2019 June 30, 2018 (In millions ) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (183 ) $ (162 ) Investing activities $ (180 ) $ (93 ) Financing activities $ 248 $ 20 The aggregate principal amount of our outstanding debt obligations was $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion as of June 29, 2019 and December 29, 2018 , respectively. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance along with our Secured Revolving Facility will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe we will be able to access the capital markets should we require additional funds. However, we cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $183 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 compared to $162 million for the prior year period. The increase in net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to changes in working capital, largely driven by higher wafer purchases. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $180 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 , which primarily consisted of $231 million for purchases of available-for-sale debt securities and $120 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $144 million for maturities of available-for-sale debt securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $93 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , which primarily consisted of $89 million for purchases of property and equipment and $35 million for the purchase of available-for-sale debt securities. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $248 million for the six months ended June 29, 2019 , which primarily consisted of a cash inflow of $449 million from the warrant exercised by West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH) and $35 million from the issuance of common stock under our stock-based compensation equity plans, partially offset by $234 million for the redemption of our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 (6.75% Senior Notes), repurchase of some of our 7.50% Senior Notes due 2020 (7.50% Senior Notes) and 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 (7.00% Notes), and repayment of our outstanding loan balance of $70 million, when we terminated our secured revolving line of credit under the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement dated as of April 14, 2015. Net cash provided by financing activities was $20 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , which consisted of a cash inflow of $35 million from the issuance of common stock through our employee equity incentive plans, partially offset by a cash outflow of $15 million for the repurchase of our 6.75% Notes and 7.00% Notes. 35 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations as of June 29, 2019 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: Payments due by period as of June 29, 2019 (In millions) Total 2019 (6 months remaining) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and thereafter Term Debt $ 1,293 $ $ $ $ 312 $ $ 981 Other long-term liabilities (1) 171 30 51 48 39 1 2 Aggregate interest obligation (2) 263 28 54 54 45 30 52 Operating leases 307 26 51 45 42 38 105 Purchase obligations (3) 2,567 1,151 859 549 6 2 Total contractual obligations (4) $ 4,601 $ 1,235 $ 1,015 $ 696 $ 444 $ 71 $ 1,140 (1) Amounts largely represent future fixed and non-cancellable cash payments associated with software technology and licenses and IP licenses, including the payments due within the next 12 months. (2) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount. (3) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only include the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancellable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. (4) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations, leases, and other liabilities related to software and technology licenses and IP licenses. The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the preceding table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 29, 2019 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes for the three and six months ended June 29, 2019 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 . 36