Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. All statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future results of operations, including descriptions of our business plan and strategies, are forward-looking statements. These statements often include words such as anticipate, expect, suggests, plan, believe, intend, estimates, targets, projects, should, could, would, may, will, forecast, or the negative of these terms, and other similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. The forward-looking statements and projections are subject to and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements or projections. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements and projections are based on reasonable assumptions at the time they are made, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and projections. Important factors that may materially affect such forward-looking statements and projections include the following: weak growth and increased volatility in the virtual care market; our history of losses and the risk we may not achieve profitability; inability to adapt to rapid technological changes; our limited number of significant clients and the risk that we may lose their business; increased competition from existing and potential new participants in the healthcare industry; our clients acceptance of the Converge platform and our ability and the costs to further develop this platform; changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends and our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; compliance with regulations concerning personally identifiable information and personal health industry; slower than expected growth in patient adoption of virtual care and in platform usage by either clients or patients; inability to grow our base of affiliated and non-affiliated providers sufficient to serve patient demand; our ability to comply with federal and state privacy regulations and the significant liability that could result from a cybersecurity breach or our failure to comply with such regulations; our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with third parties; our ability to integrate and realize the anticipated benefits of strategic acquisitions; the impact of the seasonal viruses on our business or on our ability to forecast our businesss financial outlook; and the risk that the insurance we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive and does not necessarily include all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. The information in this Quarterly Report should be read carefully in conjunction with other uncertainties and potential events described in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22, 2023 (the Form 10-K). The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law or regulation, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances 20 Overview Amwell is a leading enterprise software company enabling digital delivery of care for healthcares key stakeholders. We empower health providers, payers and innovators to achieve their digital ambitions, enabling a hybrid model of in-person, virtual and automated care. We provide our clients with the core technology and services necessary to successfully develop and distribute digital care programs that meet their strategic, operational, financial and clinical objectives under their own brands. Our enterprise software connects care across in-person, virtual and automated modalities and provides an open, scalable infrastructure that can grow alongside our clients. We bring technology and services that deliver new models of care, strategic partnerships, consistent execution, and better outcomes. As of December 31, 2022, we powered the digital care programs of more than 55 health plans, which collectively represent more than 90 million covered lives, as well as approximately 140 of the nations largest health systems, representing more than 2,000 hospitals. Since inception, we have powered approximately 25.5 million virtual care visits for our clients, including approximately 4.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023. We believe Amwell makes digital care transformation possible for the healthcare ecosystem. Our enterprise software enables digital innovation across the full healthcare continuum including urgent and primary care, second opinion services, behavioral health, chronic condition management and high acuity specialty consults, such as telestroke and telepsychiatry, in the hospital. We support both on-demand and scheduled consultations for providers and offer pre-packaged care modules and programs that power more than 100 unique use cases today. Our enterprise software can be fully integrated into our clients health plan member and patient portals and provider and health plan workflows. Providers can launch virtual visits directly from their native EHRs, with seamless integration to their payer eligibility and claims systems. Providers, patients and members can access this care through a full range of Amwell Carepoint devices, including via mobile, web, phone and our proprietary Carepoint carts that support multi-way video, phone or secure messaging interactions. Through our 2021 acquisitions of Conversa Health, Inc. (Conversa) and SilverCloud Health Holdings, Inc (SilverCloud), we enable automated care touchpoints, support ongoing treatment and care through digital engagements, and escalate care when needed to a live clinician. As of September 30, 2023, approximately 101,000 of our clients providers use our enterprise software to serve their patients and members. When needed, we augment and extend our clients clinical capabilities with Amwell Medical Group (AMG), our nationwide network of clinical entities with approximately 3,000 multi-disciplinary providers covering 50 states and Washington, D.C., with 24/7/365 coverage. The Converge platform is the latest version of our enterprise software and is designed to be future-ready, reliable, flexible, scalable, secure and fully integrated with other healthcare software systems. The Converge platform offers state-of-the-art data architecture and video capabilities, flexibility and scalability, as well as a user experience designed around the needs of patients, members and providers. It has been designed from the ground up with the holistic understanding that the future of care of any one person will inevitably blend a mix of in-person, digital and automated experiences. The telehealth of yesterday has grown to encompass hybrid care models, asynchronous and automated care, remote patient monitoring, patient and provider engagement and the flow of data that drives all of the above. The Converge platform delivers the digital care capabilities that health systems and health plans care about for example, virtual primary care, post-discharge follow-up, chronic condition management, remote patient monitoring and aligns them into a single digital care operating system that aggregates all of the data from these care experiences to provide real-time insight. By providing a single platform for the digital distribution of care, the Converge platform will accelerate innovation and interoperability for health system and health plan clients as well as other healthcare innovators who aim to offer a seamless experience for providers, patients and members. The development of Converge represents a re-platforming by the Company to provide our customer base with an improved and more robust solution. This re-platforming has been an ongoing effort that resulted in increased research and development costs during the peak development period and we expect to see a return to normal levels of spend in the coming quarters. Re-platforming may impact timing of revenue as we manage on-boarding and customer churn. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, 50% of our visits were provided on the Converge platform, which was an increase from 28% in the fourth quarter of 2022. As of September 30, 2023, we have a thumbs-up rating by patients and providers of over 90%. A major strategic focus for us in 2023 is to continue the migration of our health system and health plan clients onto the Converge platform. 21 Our Business Model We sell our enterprise software on a subscription basis, which, with our modular platform architecture, allows our clients to introduce innovative digital care use cases over time, expanding our subscription revenue opportunity. To support the enterprise software, we offer professional services on a fee-for-service basis and a range of patient and provider Carepoint devices and software that support hospital and home use cases and access to AMG, our affiliated medical group that provides clinical services on a fee-for-service basis. The combination of the enterprise software, services and Carepoint hardware allows our clients to deploy digital care solutions across their full enterprise, deepening their relationships with existing and new patients and members through improved care access and coordination, cost and quality. Our contracts are typically three years in length but may be longer for our largest strategic client partners. Total subscription fees received were $28.4 million and $31.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and $85.1 million and $90.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Health Systems For our health system clients, our enterprise softwares primary function is to facilitate consultations between patients and providers affiliated with the health system. Our typical contracts with health systems are mainly the platform subscription, but also include services delivered by AMG to complement the health system provider resources, services for technology integration, marketing and Carepoint hardware. Subscription fees are recurring and are determined based on the initial forecasted number of overall consultations throughout the entire health system on our enterprise software and net patient revenue of the health system. Subscriptions include a maximum number of consultations that can be delivered on the platform and similar to a cellular phone plan, when consultations exceed the contractual maximum, overages result in higher subscription fees in the following annual period. As the health system expands its use of our enterprise software through additional modules, there is a corresponding increase in subscription fees. To supplement a health systems own network of healthcare providers, health systems often choose to purchase clinical services from AMG to deliver care for certain specialties such as telepsychiatry, behavioral health therapy and general urgent care, or to simply operate as backup providers on nights and weekends. AMG services are provided on a fee-for-service basis. Health Plans For our health plan clients, our enterprise software functions to expand member access to care, improve health outcomes and the member experience, and reduce costs through care coordination and the ability to contain follow-up care to a health plans own network. Currently, our typical health plan contract includes a recurring subscription fee based on the number of members who have access to our enterprise software plus additional subscription fees associated with add-on programs that extend from urgent care services to longitudinal care. As the health plan expands its offerings on our enterprise software through additional programs or additional covered lives, there is a corresponding increase in subscription fees. Our health plan clients mainly purchase clinical services that leverage our AMG network. These visit consultations are charged on a fee-for-service basis and range in price based on the type of consultation and the specialty of the provider. We also have digital programs like our SilverCloud by Amwell Behavioral Health and our automated care programs leveraging the technology from our acquisition of Conversa, as well as third-party partner programs, including SWORD Health, DermatologistOnCall and Dario Health, which we announced in March 2023. These programs are each priced differently, with some including recurring subscription fees and others including volume-based and visit fees. Innovators Amwell has a number of unique clients that use our enterprise software in various ways to support their products. For example, we support: (i) a joint-venture with Cleveland Clinic and Amwell, (ii) Meuhedets advanced, hybrid-virtual international health plan and (iii) Solaborate and LG devices and peripheral technologies. Our contracts with our innovator clients vary from simple subscription fee-only contracts, where an innovator client embeds our technology within their product, to broad subscription fee and services contracts that resemble a blend of our health system and health plan profile contracts. 22 Visits Amwells clinical affiliate AMG has built a network of providers who are registered and credentialed to deliver care on our enterprise software. This clinical network is designed and operated in a way that allows us to meet the aggregate visit demand requirements of our health plan and health system clients, spanning a broad mix of specialties including, for example, internal medicine, Family Medicine, Psychiatry, Gynecology, Anesthesiology, Nutritionist, Pain Management, Psychology, Pulmonology, Urology, Health Coach, Orthopedic Surgery, Case Manager, Emergency Medicine, Gastroenterology, Nephrology, Pediatrician, Lactation Consultant, Social Worker and Vascular Surgery. AMG earns fee-for-service revenue for each episode of care delivered on our enterprise software by its providers with fees varying by physician specialty or clinical program. These clinical fees vary significantly from $59 to more than $800 per consultation or case based on the specialty and may require an additional module subscription, as in the case of telepsychiatry. Fees received from AMG-related visits were $26.7 million and $28.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and $87.4 million and $89.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Services & Carepoint Hardware We offer a full suite of paid, supporting services to our clients to enable their virtual care offerings, including professional services to facilitate virtual care implementation, workflow design, systems integration and service expansion. To help our clients promote adoption and utilization, we offer patient and provider engagement services through our internal digital engagement agency. Our clients often deploy virtual care through a variety of our proprietary Carepoint hardware, which are medical carts and kiosks designed for various clinical and community settings. Carepoint devices enable providers to deliver digital care into clinical care locations, such as the ED and clinics, as well as into community settings such as retail stores, community centers, employer sites, skilled nursing facilities and schools. Carepoint offerings consist of hardware integrated into our enterprise software but can also be deployed independent of our software solution. Our Carepoint hardware is designed by our product development teams and manufactured through partner and contract relationships. Fees received from the provision of services and Carepoints were $6.8 million and $8.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and $15.9 million and $18.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Acquisitions We have expanded and intend to continue to expand our enterprise software through research and development as well as the pursuit of selective acquisitions. We have completed multiple acquisitions since our inception, which we believe have expanded the channels that we serve and our distribution capabilities as well as broadening our service offering. Our acquisitions of SilverCloud and Conversa add proven longitudinal care and behavioral healthcare capabilities to our digital care enablement platform. SilverCloud is a leading digital mental health platform. Conversa is a leader in automated virtual healthcare. Acquisition costs and integration costs are an additional one-time cost incurred as part of the acquisitions and investment in the future growth of the business. Key Metrics and Factors Affecting Our Performance We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. While these metrics present significant opportunities for us, they also represent the challenges that we must successfully address in order to grow our business and improve the results of our operations. Digital Care Utilization Digital care utilization is a key driver of our business. A clients overall utilization of its digital care platform provides an important measure of the value they derive. Digital care utilization drives our business in three important ways. First, to the extent a client succeeds with its digital care program and sees good usage, they are more likely to renew and potentially expand their contract with us. Second, our health systems agreements typically include a certain number of visits conducted by their own providers annually and provide that as certain volume thresholds are exceeded, its annual license fees will rise to reflect this growing value. Third, to the extent that clients utilize provider services from AMG, Amwell derives revenue from clinical fees. We expect that our future revenues will be driven by the growing adoption of digital care and our ability to maintain and grow market share within that market. COVID-19 dramatically accelerated digital care adoption seen in both overall volumes and embracement of delivering higher acuity care in a 23 virtual medium. Significant expansion of reimbursement for digital care during the COVID-19 crisis made digital care more affordable for many people. We continue to experience strong digital care adoption and usage of our enterprise software and products. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our clients completed a total of 4.6 million visits using our enterprise software, while in the nine months ended September 30, 2022 4.7 million visits were completed. AMG providers accounted for 24% and 24% of total visits performed using our enterprise software during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We demonstrated that virtual care goes beyond urgent care pandemic needs through a significant number of scheduled visits. Scheduled visits were 3.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 3.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Total Overall Quarterly Visits Quarter Ended Overall Visits Performed by Client Providers September 30, 2023 1,445,000 76 % June 30, 2023 1,485,000 76 % March 31, 2023 1,710,000 75 % December 31, 2022 1,715,000 71 % September 30, 2022 1,450,000 74 % June 30, 2022 1,525,000 76 % Active Providers An important indicator of the value of our enterprise software to our clients is the number of non-AMG providers that are active on the enterprise software. We define Active Providers as providers that have delivered a visit on the enterprise software at least once in the last 12 months. Active Providers demonstrate the prevalence of digital care within our clients in both home and hospital environments. We believe Active Providers is a measure of our success in delivering on our mission of enabling access to care. We expect that the number of Active Providers will increase over time as a result of several factors, however during re-platforming efforts temporary declines could occur: the number of modules and use cases deployed within health systems the adoption of digital care by providers across the spectrum of care the expansion of modules and programs through acquisitions, including Conversa Health and SilverCloud the number of programs offered through health plans the continued improvement in the regulatory environment for digital care, including reimbursement for digital care services the ongoing consumerization of healthcare Total Active Providers Quarter Ended Total Active Providers Client Providers AMG September 30, 2023 104,000 101,000 3,000 June 30, 2023 106,000 102,500 3,500 March 31, 2023 108,000 104,500 3,500 December 31, 2022 107,000 103,500 3,500 September 30, 2022(1) 104,000 100,500 3,500 June 30, 2022(1) 101,000 97,500 3,500 (1) In the year ended December 31, 2022, we revised our methodology of calculating Active Providers as part of our efforts to account for unique providers who conduct visits on multiple platforms and products. This change resulted in an adjustment to the number of active providers reported historically. The numbers included in the table above reflect the current methodology. As we noted in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of the Form 10-K, we may make adjustments to our historical Active Provider metrics with revisions to our methodology for calculating this number in the future. 24 Regulatory Environment Our operations are subject to comprehensive United States federal, state and local and international regulation in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Our ability to operate profitably will depend in part upon our ability, and that of our affiliated providers, to maintain all necessary licenses and to operate in compliance with applicable laws and rules. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, state and federal regulatory authorities loosened or removed a number of regulatory requirements in order to increase the availability of digital care services. For example, many state governors issued executive orders permitting physicians and other health care professionals to practice in their state without any additional licensure or by using a temporary, expedited or abbreviated licensure process so long as they hold a valid license in another state. In addition, changes were made to the Medicare and Medicaid programs (through waivers and other regulatory authority) to increase access to digital care services by, among other things, increasing reimbursement, permitting the enrollment of out of state providers and eliminating prior authorization requirements. With the end of the public health emergency in the United States in May 2023, we expect many of these regulatory requirements to be re-instated. However, we do not anticipate a material impact on our business resulting from the foregoing. Seasonality Visit volumes typically follow the annual flu season, rising during quarter four and quarter one and falling in the summer months. COVID-19 altered these historical trends as we saw spikes other times in the year with new variant outbreaks. The future impact of COVID-19 on seasonality is unknown as there could be additional surges and demand on virtual care visits. While we sell to and implement our solutions to clients year-round, we experience some seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our clients and when we launch our solutions to members. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a metric used by management in assessing the health of our business and our operating performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measure as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for our non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our operating performance. Because adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes and in evaluating acquisition opportunities. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude (i) interest income and other income, net, (ii) tax benefit and expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) goodwill impairment, (v) stock-based compensation expense, (vi) severance expenses, (vii) capitalized software costs, (viii) litigation expenses related to the defense of our patents in the patent infringement claim filed by Teladoc and (ix) other items affecting our results that we do not view as representative of our ongoing operations, including noncash compensation costs incurred by selling shareholders and adjustments made to the contingent consideration. 25 The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA from the most comparable GAAP measure, net loss, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss $ (137,104 ) $ (70,575 ) $ (629,128 ) $ (210,480 ) Add: Depreciation and amortization 8,266 6,397 23,227 19,719 Interest income and other income (expense), net (7,978 ) (1,237 ) (11,250 ) (2,109 ) Expense from income taxes 1,122 95 3,313 224 Goodwill Impairment 78,894 436,479 Stock-based compensation 16,899 21,312 59,409 48,304 Severance(1) 1,359 3,340 Capitalized software costs (13,836 ) Noncash expenses and contingent consideration adjustments(2) 1,930 6,926 Litigation expense(3) 176 5,575 Adjusted EBITDA $ (38,542 ) $ (41,902 ) $ (128,446 ) $ (131,841 ) (1) Severance costs associated with the termination of employees during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. (2) Noncash expenses and contingent consideration adjustments include, noncash compensation costs incurred by selling shareholders and adjustments made to the contingent consideration. (3) Litigation expense relates to legal costs related to the Teladoc litigation which was dismissed pursuant to a confidential settlement between the parties in 2022. Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include (i) adjusted EBITDA does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future, and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures. Our legal, accounting and other professional expenses reflect cash expenditures and we expect such expenditures to recur from time to time. Our adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we calculate the measure, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. In evaluating adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to loss before benefit from income taxes, net loss, earnings per share, or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our performance, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. Components of Statement of Operations Revenue The Company has demonstrated the strength of our revenue as a direct result of the increasing acceptance of digital care, our penetration of the market, and the successful launch of new or expanded products that enable broadened applications for care delivered virtually. Revenue performance is reflective of the strong foundation that has been built, focused around health plans, health systems, our provider network and a consistently increasing visit base. We generate revenues from the use of our enterprise software in the form of recurring subscription fees for use of our enterprise software, and related services and Carepoint sales. We also generate revenue from the performance of AMG patient visits. Cost of Revenues, Excluding Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of revenues primarily consist of hosting fees paid to our hosting providers, costs incurred in connection with our professional services, technical and hosting support, and costs for running our affiliated provider network operations team. These costs primarily include employee-related expenses (including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and travel). 26 Cost of revenues are primarily driven by the size of our provider network and the hosting and technical support required to service our clients. Our business models are designed to be scalable and to leverage fixed costs to generate higher revenues. While we currently expect increased investments to support accelerated growth, we also expect increased efficiencies and economies of scale. Our quarterly cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues is expected to fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these aforementioned factors. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software and hardware engineering, information technology infrastructure, security and compliance and product development (inclusive of stock-based compensation for our research and development employees). Research and development expenses also include the periodic outsourcing of similar functions to third party specialists. In the recent years, we accelerated the expansion of our enterprise software volume capacity and the development of additional functionality through new programs and modules. We have also expanded the use of offshore resources to provide more efficient rates which are designed to offset the increased research and development spend. While we have recognized an increase in the research and development expense throughout the prior years, the corresponding future revenue growth is expected to result in lower expenses as a percentage of revenue. This increased spend represents an investment in a more scalable and economically beneficial solution that will properly position the Company to benefit in the long term. We believe the increase in spend in the prior years was temporary and we have seen and expect to continue to see a gradual decline during 2023 as we return to normal levels of spend in future periods. Our research and development expenses may also fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our research and development expenses. We are accelerating our multiyear technology investment to accommodate the anticipated significant growth in market demand for increasingly broad and sophisticated digital care enablement infrastructure following COVID-19. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, commissions, travel and stock-based compensation costs for our employees engaged in commercial activities. We will continue to invest appropriately in sales expenses as we look to grow with new prospects and expand the business of our existing clients. We will continue to elevate the skills and impact of our sales personnel and related account management teams as we look to provide a differentiated and enhanced client experience to our growing client base as well as identifying new strategic market opportunities. Marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses (inclusive of stock-based compensation) for our marketing staff that primarily support the sales organization and client engagement. Marketing costs also include third-party independent research, digital marketing campaigns, participation in trade shows, brand messaging, public relations costs, and the costs of communication materials that are produced to generate awareness and utilization of our enterprise software among our clients and their users. Our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our advertising and marketing expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel and related expenses, and professional fees incurred by finance, legal, human resources, information technology, our executives, and executive administration staff. They also include stock-based compensation for employees in these departments and expenses related to auditing, consulting, legal, and corporate insurance. 27 We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the next several years. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense includes the amortization of intangible assets and depreciation related to our fixed assets. Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, which are customer relationships, contractor relationships, technology and trade names. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill impairment is the result of the fair value of the Company's one reporting unit being less than its carrying value. The goodwill impairment resulted from sustained decreases in the Company's publicly quoted share price and market capitalization. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net The balance of interest income and other income (expense), net, consists predominantly of interest income on our money-market and short-term investments. We did not incur material interest expenses in the period as there were no outstanding debts or notes payable. Provision for Income Taxes The income tax provision is primarily due to state and foreign income tax expense. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent management believes it is not more likely than not to be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income. Management makes estimates and judgments about future taxable income based on assumptions that are consistent with our plans and estimates. 28 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth our summarized condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 and the dollar and percentage change between the respective periods: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change % 2023 2022 Change % Revenue $ 61,922 $ 69,209 $ (7,287 ) -11 % $ 188,370 $ 197,957 $ (9,587 ) -5 % Costs and operating expenses: Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 40,457 41,507 (1,050 ) (3 )% 117,453 114,769 2,684 2 % Research and development 27,715 36,254 (8,539 ) (24 )% 79,480 110,802 (31,322 ) (28 )% Sales and marketing 20,379 18,493 1,886 10 % 64,659 58,368 6,291 11 % General and administrative 29,571 37,682 (8,111 ) (22 )% 102,260 105,309 (3,049 ) (3 )% Depreciation and amortization expense 8,266 6,397 1,869 29 % 23,227 19,719 3,508 18 % Goodwill Impairment 78,894 78,894 (N/A 436,479 436,479 (N/A Total costs and operating expenses 205,282 140,333 64,949 46 % 823,558 408,967 414,591 101 % Loss from operations (143,360 ) (71,124 ) (72,236 ) 102 % (635,188 ) (211,010 ) (424,178 ) 201 % Interest income and other income (expense), net 7,978 1,237 6,741 545 % 11,250 2,109 9,141 433 % Loss before expense from income taxes and loss from equity method investment (135,382 ) (69,887 ) (65,495 ) 94 % (623,938 ) (208,901 ) (415,037 ) 199 % Expense from income taxes (1,122 ) (95 ) (1,027 ) 1,081 % (3,313 ) (224 ) (3,089 ) 1,379 % Loss from equity method investment (600 ) (593 ) (7 ) 1 % (1,877 ) (1,355 ) (522 ) 39 % Net loss (137,104 ) (70,575 ) (66,529 ) 94 % (629,128 ) (210,480 ) (418,648 ) 199 % Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest (690 ) (491 ) (199 ) 41 % (2,551 ) (1,214 ) (1,337 ) 110 % Net loss attributable to American Well Corporation $ (136,414 ) $ (70,084 ) $ (66,330 ) 95 % $ (626,577 ) $ (209,266 ) $ (417,311 ) 199 % Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2023, subscription revenue declined $3.5 million due to customer churn during re-platforming, partially offset by growth in our existing strategic clients. Visit revenue decreased $2.0 million due to a decline in visit volume and lower utilization in specialty care. Other revenue decreased by $1.7 million primarily related to a decrease in marketing revenue. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, subscription revenue declined $5.1 million due to customer churn during re-platforming, partially offset by growth in strategic clients. Visit revenue decreased $1.9 million due to lower utilization in specialty care. There was also a decrease in other revenue of $2.6 million related primarily to a decrease in hardware and marketing revenue slightly offset by an increase in professional services. Costs of Revenue, Excluding Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in provider costs of $1.1 million due to the decline in visit volume and a decrease of $1.1 million in marketing services provided to customers. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.4 million related to employee and consulting costs. The decrease in gross margin is a result of shift in revenue mix. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to an increase of $4.7 million related to employee and consulting costs. Third party software costs also increased $2.2 million. These increases were offset by a decrease in hardware costs of $2.6 million due to the decline in hardware revenue as well as a decrease of $2.4 million related to marketing services provided to customers. The decrease in gross margin contribution is a result of a shift in revenue mix. 29 Research and Development Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease in research and development expense was primarily driven by a decrease of $5.8 million in consulting services as spend related to the development of the Converge platform has declined. There was also a decline in employee-related costs of $1.7 million (inclusive of stock compensation and variable compensation). For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease in research and development expense was primarily driven by a decrease of $29.4 million in consulting services as spend related to the development of the Converge platform has declined (contributing to this decrease was $13.8 million capitalized as software development costs). Research and development expense also decreased as there was no non-cash compensation in the current year related to the SilverCloud acquisition, and there was a charge of $1.8 million in the prior year due to the settlement of the SilverCloud bonus escrow award in 2022. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the increase in sales and marketing expense primarily consisted of $3.2 million in employee-related costs, driven by commissions, stock compensation expense and headcount realignment. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.7 million in third party software costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the increase in sales and marketing expense primarily consisted of $9.7 million in employee-related costs including severance, stock compensation expense, and headcount realignment. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million in advertising spend and spend on conferences and tradeshows and $0.8 million in third party software costs. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease related to employee-related costs of $6.0 million. The employee related costs were driven primarily by the decrease in stock compensation expense as certain historic awards had become fully expensed and reduced variable compensation. Head count over the comparative periods was relatively flat. In addition there was a decrease in insurance costs of $0.7 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease of $5.7 million in legal costs mainly due to the Teladoc litigation settlement in the second quarter of 2022. There was no non-cash compensation or earnout adjustment in the current year, while there were total charges of $2.9 million in the prior year, due to the settlement of the SilverCloud bonus escrow awards and the SilverCloud revenue earnout in 2022. There was also a decrease in insurance costs of $2.2 million. The decrease was partially offset by an increase related to employee-related costs of approximately $9.9 million primarily related to stock compensation expense, due to additional equity awards granted during 2022 and 2023. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation expense remained consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Amortization expense increased by $2.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase in amortization was related to the amortization of the internally developed software intangible assets. Depreciation expense remained consistent for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Amortization expense increased by $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase in amortization was related to the amortization of the internally developed software intangible assets. Goodwill Impairment During the three months ended September 30, 2023, the goodwill was impaired by $78.9 million (or $0.28 per basic and diluted share) as a result of sustained decreases in the Company's publicly quoted share price and market capitalization. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the goodwill was impaired by $436.5 million (or $1.54 per basic and diluted share) as a result of sustained decreases in the Company's publicly quoted share price and market capitalization. Interest Income and Other (Expense) Income, net For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, interest income and other (expense) income, net consist entirely of interest income and gains from our cash equivalents and short-term investments. 30 Expense from Income Taxes Income tax expense was $1.1 million and $3.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to income tax benefit of $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. Loss from Equity Method Investment The Company and Cleveland Clinic partnered to form a joint venture, under the name CCAW, JV LLC, to provide broad access to comprehensive and high acuity care services via virtual care. The Company does not have a controlling financial interest in CCAW, JV LLC, but it does have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of CCAW, JV LLC. Therefore, the Company accounts for its investments in CCAW, JV LLC using the equity method of accounting. During the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company recognized a loss of $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as its proportionate share of the joint venture results of operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company recognized a loss of $1.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively, as its proportionate share of the joint venture results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents a summary of our cash flow activity for the periods set forth below: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Net cash used in operating activities $ (106,767 ) $ (156,377 ) Net cash used in investing activities (113,507 ) (251,330 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,147 (4,029 ) Total $ (218,127 ) $ (411,736 ) Sources of Financing Our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $418.1 million and $538.5 million as of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, which were held for a variety of growth initiatives and investments as well as working capital purposes. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are comprised of money market funds and marketable securities including U.S. Treasury bills. As shown in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company incurred a loss from operations of $635.2 million and a net loss of $629.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and had an accumulated deficit of $1,709.2 million as of September 30, 2023. The Company has no debt as of September 30, 2023 or December 31, 2022 and expects to generate operating losses in future years. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of the financial statements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, contract renewal activity, number of consultations on our enterprise software, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, our expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of digital care services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Nine months ended September 30, 2023, vs. nine months ended September 30, 2022 Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $106.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $629.1 million. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $523.1 million (primarily 31 goodwill impairment of $436.5 million, stock-based compensation of $59.6 million and depreciation and amortization of $23.2 million). The net loss, excluding impairment charge, was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology and infrastructure perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business including expansion of business with existing clients. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $156.4 million. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $210.5 million. The net loss was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business including expansion of business with existing clients. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $75.7 million (primarily stock-based compensation of $48.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $19.5 million). Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $113.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Cash used in investing activities consisted of $13.8 million in capitalized software development costs, $3.9 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture and purchases of short-term investments of $390.0 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $294.3 million. Cash used in investing activities was $251.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Cash used in investing activities consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $499.2 million and $2.0 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture, partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $249.9 million. Cash Provided by and Used in Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was $2.1 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of $2.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan, offset by $0.6 in the repurchase of stock to cover tax withholding obligations upon vesting of restricted stock units. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, was $4.0 million. Cash used in financing activities consisted of $11.8 million related to the payment of the Conversa integration earnout, partially offset by $7.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We are therefore not exposed to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in those types of relationships. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of September 30, 2023, there have been no material changes from the contractual obligations and commitments previously disclosed in our Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience, current business factors, and various other assumptions that the Company believes are necessary to consider to form a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic and political factors, and changes in the Companys business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained, and as the Companys operating environment evolves. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2022 Form 10-K. In addition, the following updates our discussion of Goodwill and Intangible Assets therein as of September 30, 2023. 32 Goodwill and Intangible Assets When there is a triggering event the Company assesses the potential impact on its goodwill, definite-lived intangibles, and other long-lived assets. To test intangible assets for impairment the Company performs an undiscounted cash flow analysis to establish fair value. The significant estimates used in fair value methodology, which are based on Level 3 inputs, include the Company's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows, including revenue, gross margin and operating expenses. Reasonably possible changes in those assumptions could result in non-cash impairment charges in the future. As of September 30, 2023, we estimate that, all else equal, a 15% decline in projected revenue growth rates would result in 26% decline in fair value of the asset group, which would not result in a non-cash impairment charge. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements in our Form 10-K and Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. There have been no significant changes to these policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Adopted For more information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements covered under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted For more information on new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements covered under Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.