Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The forward-looking statements and projections are subject to and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements or projections. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements and projections are based on reasonable assumptions at the time they are made, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and projections. Important factors that may materially affect such forward-looking statements and projections include the following: weak growth and increased volatility in the digital care market; our history of losses and the risk we may not achieve profitability; inability to adapt to rapid technological changes; our limited number of significant clients and the risk that we may lose their business; increased competition from existing and potential new participants in the healthcare industry; changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends and our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; compliance with regulations concerning personally identifiable information and personal health industry; slower than expected growth in patient adoption of digital care and in platform usage by either clients or patients; inability to grow our base of affiliated and non-affiliated providers sufficient to serve patient demand; our ability to comply with federal and state privacy regulations and the significant liability that could result from a cybersecurity breach or our failure to comply with such regulations; our ability to commence and complete any strategic transformation initiatives and the impact of such initiatives; our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with third parties; the impact of the seasonal viruses on our business or on our ability to forecast our businesss financial outlook; the risk that the insurance we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures; and the continuation of the Defense Health Agency relationship beyond July of 2025 with comparable financial terms. You should refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of these and other important factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These cautionary statements should not be construed by you to be exhaustive and are made only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report in the context of these risks and uncertainties. 1 PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Amwell is a leading enterprise platform and software company digitally enabling hybrid care. We empower health providers, payers, and innovators to achieve their digital ambitions, enabling a coordinated experience across in-person, virtual and automated care. We provide our clients with the core technology and services necessary to successfully develop and distribute digital care programs that meet their strategic, operational, financial and clinical objectives under their own brands. Founded in 2006, Amwell pioneered virtual healthcare. Today, Amwell extends digital care beyond telehealth, enabling care across in-person, virtual and automated modalities and providing an open, scalable platform that can flex and grow alongside our clients. We bring technology and services that facilitate new models of care, strategic partnerships, consistent execution and better outcomes. Together with our clients and innovation partners, we forge a new hybrid model of care delivery that adapts as needs evolve and makes care more accessible for all. As of December 31, 2024, we power the digital care programs of approximately 50 health plans, which collectively represent more than 80 million covered lives, as well as approximately 100 of the nations largest health systems. Since inception, we have powered more than 33.1 million virtual care visits for our clients, including more than 5.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2024. Our enterprise platform and software as a service solutions enable hybrid care delivery by offering our clients products to help weave digital care across all care settings. For health systems, our enterprise platform enables provider-to-provider virtual care for use cases ranging from stroke to virtual nursing and e-sitting. Our suite of Carepoint devices can enhance in-person care, whether the clients want to turn existing equipment such as televisions or iPads into digital access points or use Amwell CarepointTM carts and peripherals. Our enterprise platform also helps extend care outside the care setting by enabling both on-demand and scheduled provider-to-patient care for a range of use cases. This includes, but is not limited to, urgent care, primary care, behavioral health, chronic disease management, and specialty follow-up care. To augment in-person and virtual care, our automated care programs and digital mental health services help clinicians and health plans engage patients, members, and consumers before, after, or in-between visits to improve care plan adherence and prevent costly escalations. For health plans, employers and government entities, our enterprise platform enables a member-centric hybrid care experience, seamlessly connecting with current technology investments and offering an open architecture that allows simple integration of future innovation. The platform enables a broad set of use cases, including primary, urgent, mental health, specialty, and chronic care. Our virtual primary care solution offers a primary care navigation hub that supports a whole-person, longitudinal care experience for members, integrating virtual visits with digital behavioral health tools and condition-specific automated care programs, with escalation back to virtual and/or in person care, if needed. Our urgent care solution helps members conveniently and effectively address unplanned care needs without visiting the emergency department or local urgent care facility, driving quality outcomes at a lower cost. Our clients providers use our enterprise platform and software to serve their patients and members. When needed, we augment and extend our clients clinical capabilities with Amwell Medical Group (AMG), a nationwide network of clinical entities with multi-disciplinary providers covering 50 states with 24/7/365 coverage. The AMG network includes a clinical entity with care capabilities that have been accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). The Amwell Converge platform is the latest version of our enterprise platform software. We designed the platform to be future-ready, reliable, flexible, scalable, secure and integrated with other healthcare software systems. Our platform offers state-of-the-art data architecture and video capabilities, flexibility and scalability, as well as a user experience focused on the needs of patients, members and providers. It has been designed from the ground up with the holistic understanding that the future of care of any one person will inevitably blend a mix of in-person, virtual and automated care experiences. The telehealth of yesterday has grown to encompass hybrid care delivery models and the flow of data that drives healthcare. The Amwell Converge platform delivers the digital capabilities that health systems and health plans care about for example, virtual primary care, post-discharge follow-up, chronic condition management, virtual nursing and aligns them into a single digital care operating system that aggregates all of the data from these care experiences to provide real-time insight. By providing a single platform for the digital distribution of care, our platform accelerates innovation and interoperability for health system and health plan clients as well as other healthcare innovators who aim to offer a seamless experience for providers, patients and members. 2 Our Industry Opportunities Healthcare today is inefficient, expensive, complicated and fragmented, resulting in substantial challenges for providers, payers and patients. By addressing these challenges, digital care delivery offers many opportunities to improve healthcare, which include: Solving the access crisis driven by workforce shortages and inefficient resource allocation; Reducing healthcare costs for all stakeholders; Enabling greater care coordination; Improving health equity and addressing social determinants of health; and Optimizing patient and member experience to drive adoption and retention. Our Solution To capture these opportunities, we believe clients are seeking a comprehensive solution to support their connected care goals and consolidate point-solution vendors and in-house designed solutions. One Platform, Powering the Care Continuum The Amwell Converge platform, our cloud-based enablement platform, is our go-forward strategy to digitally enable a scalable healthcare experience across all care settings. The development of the platform provides our customer base with an improved and more robust healthcare solution that is designed to connect seamlessly with clients' existing investments as well as Amwell-owned and partner programs. During the fourth quarter of 2024, 67% of our visits were provided on this platform, which was an increase from 52% in the fourth quarter of 2023. A strategic focus for us in 2025 is to continue the migration of health plan and health system clients onto the platform as soon as it is feasible for those clients. The Amwell Converge platform is designed to remotely implement hybrid care solutions and services for our clients and grow with them as they broaden their offerings. It allows clients the flexibility to build their optimal hybrid care model across a wide variety of use cases based on their unique needs. Health systems typically begin with on-demand and/or scheduled virtual visits. Additional provider-centric solutions include specialty consults, virtual nursing, automated care, behavioral health, and more. Clients can seamlessly activate additional solutions on the platform as new needs arise, all working together to create a more connected experience for patients and providers. Health plans typically begin with urgent care, virtual primary care, or behavioral health. Clients also can offer members access to our suite of specialty care programs offered through best-of-breed partners, including musculoskeletal care, second opinion, dermatology, and cardiometabolic care. The Amwell Converge platforms open architecture allows it to integrate with health plans and employers existing systems and point solutions, connecting the digital care ecosystem and simplifying the member experience. We have designed our platform to be future-ready, intuitive and convenient for patients, providers and payers: Patients and MembersFor member or patient-initiated on-demand/urgent care visits, patients can elect to see the next available clinician. For scheduled visits, patients are guided through configurable pre-visit readiness assessments and can enroll themselves and their dependents, enter their medical history, search for providers who meet their needs and check insurance coverage. Entering a visit is simple; patients just click on a link they receive in a text message or email. No app download is required. Post visit, patients can access their visit record or share it with other providers in their care team. They also can engage with a condition-specific automated care program that the clinician enrolled them in during or after the visit. These automated care programs share patient data back with the care team and can escalate care to a virtual or in-person visit when necessary and based on client-implemented protocols. The platform received a thumbs-up rating by patients of over 90% for the full-year period ended December 31, 2024. ProvidersThe Amwell Converge platform is designed to deliver an easy-to-use provider experience via web or mobile device. Providers access familiar workflows for taking notes, prescribing, referencing clinical treatment guidelines and receiving alerts for gaps in care or referral protocols. They can enroll patients in automated care 3 programs to augment care, when appropriate. Importantly, solutions can be launched directly from within a providers EHR system, creating a seamless experience and reducing redundant data entry. Payers Access to the Amwell Converge platform can be embedded directly into health plan portals, websites, and mobile applications, all using the health plans trusted brand. The platform integrates directly with claims and eligibility systems to enable verification and collection of correct co-insurance payments from patients at the time of the visit. In addition, the platform enables payers to connect their own digital assets, influence member workflows, and present key clinical quality information, such as gaps in care, to providers at the time of a visit. The platform also enables payers with clinical networks or integrated delivery networks to seamlessly incorporate their own providers to deliver care. Carepoint Devices and Connections Enable a Variety of Clinical Settings Amwell CarepointTM devices enable healthcare providers to leverage proprietary carts and transform existing tablets and TVs into digital access points in clinical settings, helping to address personnel shortages and access limitations. Our proprietary Carepoint devices coupled with our Carepoint Calling technology enables providers to deliver digital care into clinical locations, such as the emergency department, community hospitals, clinics, and hospital-at-home as well as into community settings such as retail stores, employer sites, skilled nursing facilities, correctional facilities, and schools. Our Virtual Nursing and patient monitoring (eSitter) offerings leverage these Carepoint devices to augment on-site nurse teams with virtual staff, and leverage technology to increase patient safety and nurse efficiencies. These devices are built to rigorous safety and clinical standards and have advanced features including far-end camera controls, fleet monitoring and connectivity to a variety of peripherals, including diagnostic scopes and heart, lungs, stomach, and ear examination tools. Our Carepoint portfolio supports a range of uses, including multi-way video, phone connectivity and secure messaging to bring care teams to patients and members in the most efficient way possible. Value-Added Services We offer a full suite of paid, supporting services to our clients to enable their hybrid care strategy. AMG contracts with providers across primary and urgent care, behavioral health therapy, lactation counseling, and nutrition to provide licensed, reimbursable medical staffing for digital care delivery to our clients. AMG can be used to augment provider capacity during nights, weekends or times of high demand. This nationwide network of clinicians can also enable expanded geographic coverage in cases where state-level licensing requirements restrict the ability of our clients own physicians to treat patients outside of their geographic locations. Additionally, we provide professional services to facilitate implementation, workflow design, systems integration, and service expansion for all of our products. To help our clients promote adoption and utilization of our products, we offer patient and provider engagement services. Our Market Opportunity Core U.S. Digital Care Market; Global Expansion Opportunity We believe the annual total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions is substantial and increasing. We estimate the aggregate market size of the subsegments applicable to our business in the U.S. at approximately $94 billion. This includes: Virtual Care virtual urgent care, virtual office visits, virtual home health, and tele-behavioral health; Clinical Services patient and member engagement, specialty carveout management services, provider enablement, health and wellness administration, and patient advocacy; Software and Platforms telehealth technology, population health, health information exchange and interoperability products, patient engagement, remote patient monitoring, and clinical decision support. The TAM in the U.S. for the Amwell Converge platform is the value of the above sub-segments of the market that can be captured through technology. We believe the TAM of our hybrid care platform is approximately $31 billion and will grow to roughly $50 billion over the next four years. In addition, the TAM for virtual clinical services, which we offer through our platform via AMG to customers who do not have their own clinical supply or require supplemental clinical supply, is a material portion of the approximately $40 billion, and growing, virtual care market opportunity. 4 In the health plan space, there are more than 290 million lives enrolled in insurance plans that we have identified as potential subscribers to our platform. We also have identified 930 health systems that could benefit from our platform for patient care as well as provider-to-provider consults. We intend to grow our addressable market through continued expansion into new and existing market segments, which we believe represents a significant opportunity, as well as new global geographies. The addition of our SilverCloud by Amwell offering significantly expanded our international market opportunity in the behavioral health space, which is estimated to be $23 billion internationally. Competition We view competitors as those companies whose primary business is developing and marketing virtual care and digital care platforms and services. Competition focuses on, among other factors, technology, breadth and depth of functionality, range of associated services, operational experience, client support, extent of client base, and reputation. Our competitors include: Platform telehealth players such as Teladoc and Caregility; Consumer-focused telehealth competitors such as Included Health and MDLive; Technology players leveraging horizontal platforms into the healthcare vertical, such as Microsoft, Amazon, and Zoom; Virtual nursing offerings, such as Care.AI and Avasure; EHR providers, including Epic, Oracle Health, Allscripts and athenahealth; Digital patient engagement companies like Twistle, GetWell Loop, and Memora Health; Digital behavioral health companies, like Ableto, Headspace, Array, and Neuroflow. While we consider the companies above to be competitors, many are also partners or potential partners. For example, in the health system market, we routinely partner and/or integrate with EHR vendors to enhance care delivery for our customers. As we continue to open our platform to third-party innovators, we believe erstwhile competitors will increasingly become collaborators and integration points. We believe the breadth of our existing customer ecosystem, our unique customer footprint with both payers and providers, the depth of our platform, and our business-to-business focus on promoting existing healthcare brands and integrating with multiple platforms increases the likelihood that stakeholders seeking to develop digital and hybrid care solutions will increasingly choose to collaborate with Amwell. Our Competitive Strengths Supporting the Full Continuum of Care with Synchronous, Asynchronous and Automated Capabilities Our platform enables clients to deploy and configure care pathways that blend a range of technology-enabled care modalities. For example, a patient may benefit from ongoing digital-based therapy to assist with managing a behavioral health issue, chronic condition or recovery post hospital discharge. Yet, this patient can also be escalated to a synchronous session with a care provider via video using algorithms our clients configure and/or patient choice. The mix of automated, digital, and virtual care capabilities Amwell offers is unique and enables our clients to operate more efficiently and effectively while adhering to their own clinical pathways. Enabling Our Clients Own Provider Networks Our platform enables clients to leverage their own provider networks to treat their patients and members using virtual and digital modalities across the care continuum. Client providers utilized our enterprise platform and software solutions to address their patients needs, from primary care to chronic care management to specialty care. We offer provider training, outreach, and best practices to drive increased patient acquisition and retention, appropriate utilization, and better outcomes. This ability for healthcare organizations to seamlessly enable their own trusted providers and networks to deliver care on our best-in-class hybrid care platform and the ability to supplement with our clinical services using AMG as needed - differentiates us in the industry. 5 Flexible and Scalable Suite of Solutions Our scalable solutions allow us to grow with the digital and hybrid care delivery needs of our clients. Our platform is designed to be used by all, from the small innovative health systems, like El Camino Health, the hospital of Silicon Valley, to the largest health organizations like Elevance Health, The National Health Service in the United Kingdom and the U.S. Military Health System. Many clients start by providing a single (or several) use case(s), such as on-demand urgent care, or start with a subset of their members or patients. As our clients expand their hybrid care delivery, they can add components that support additional specialties or specific use cases across broader patient and/or member populations. As we expand our capabilities, our solutions, programs and devices allow us to partner with clients that are new to hybrid care delivery as well as with rapidly expanding digital and hybrid care market leaders. Support for Third-Party and First-Party Applications and Solutions The Amwell Converge platform enables clients to add their own digital assets as well as best-in-class third party solutions and activate members and patients directly from our platform. For example, clients can make care programs, such as digital cognitive behavioral therapy or chronic condition management, available for providers to share with patients directly from within a virtual visit. Conversely, patients can be escalated to synchronous virtual care or directed to a clients own physicians and solutions from automated continuity of care experiences based on client implemented rules and protocols. We believe our platforms ability to seamlessly integrate Amwell capabilities, client capabilities, and third-party capabilities versus forcing clients to either manage numerous point solutions or get locked into a single full stack vendor solution is another strong differentiator in our industry. To bring as much value to our clients as possible, Amwell continues to enhance the ability to deliver third-party and first-party solutions to complement our own solutions. Payers and health systems are increasingly expressing their desire to work with fewer technology partners who can deliver more. This trend is driving our strategy to create a digital formulary as part of our platform to provide high-quality vetted apps, services and products developed by leading innovators as well as by our clients themselves. Client-Branded, Embedded Digital Experiences Our configurable platformand its associated APIs and widgets encourage our clients to deploy digital and hybrid care programs under their own brands, unlike telehealth and virtual care players who promote programs under their brands. Our differentiated approach empowers our clients to leverage the trust associated with their market-leading brands while we provide the core technology and clinical support to enable quality patient and member care. We are aligned with clients and partner with them to configure tailored digital care programs instead of competing with them for their patients. Platform Integration Enabling Efficient Delivery of Hybrid Care Our platform integrates with clients care pathways and workflows using our APIs and embeddable software widgets. In addition to enabling workflows within client EHR systems such as Epic and Oracle Health, our platform enables client care via digital front doors, mobile apps, and nurse lines for patient access. In the case of EHR workflows, providers typically prefer launching Amwell solutions within their EHR (e.g., Epic Hyperspace). For patients, Amwell enables a highly configured experience, including single sign on (SSO) from a patient portal (e.g., Epic MyChart) or from a dedicated portal experience (e.g., the health plans member portal). We also integrate with back-end systems to streamline administrative functions such as enrollment, clinical management, payment, claims administration, e-prescribing, follow-up and data interchanges such as picture archiving and communication systems (PACS). For our clients, this functionality eases administrative burdens and supports physician workflows. For patients and members, our embedded functionality simplifies hybrid care delivery directly into the portals and systems those individuals are already utilizing. Connected Ecosystem of Health Systems, Health Plans and Innovators We have technology and care delivery partnerships with many of the worlds largest and most trusted health systems, health plans and healthcare innovators. Our broad range of credentialed AMG and client healthcare providers is attractive to health plans seeking to expand their care networks, while health systems are drawn to a network connected to many health plans that allows for the possibility to extend their services through the digital distribution of their care. Our ecosystem benefits from scale in our client base across each stakeholder vertical. For example, we currently provide product and services to many Blues plans. We also facilitate a Blue User Group, a venue in which representatives from those Blue plans share best practices and identify common needs for innovation. 6 Our ecosystem also is strengthened by our alliances with innovators that bring new services and capabilities to our platform. For example, our collaboration with Hello Heart supports cardiovascular disease prevention and management, and our joint venture with Cleveland Clinic, The Clinic, enables the provision of second opinion programs via our platform. Finally, the breadth of our ecosystem has enabled a deep understanding of health system and health plan workflows and reimbursement arrangements between our clients, allowing us to configure our platform to meet their needs. Access to Nationwide, On-Demand Medical Services to Support Our Clients Digital Care Solutions As part of our mission to enable our clients to deliver hybrid care, we partner with AMG, our affiliated network of multi-disciplinary providers with 24/7/365 coverage across 50 states. AMG offers medical staffing solutions for virtual care services that can integrate with and extend our clients' existing care capabilities. Beyond general practitioners, our AMG roster includes approximately 1,000 active behavioral health providers. In addition to AMG, we continue to expand our digital care solutions for chronic condition management with strategic partners in the areas of musculoskeletal, dermatology, cardiometabolic and second opinion services. For health plans, AMG provides essential nationwide clinical coverage for members across a broad range of specialties. For health systems, most require clinical support for their initial programs and then transition to weekend or evening coverage as their clinicians are provisioned. For rural health systems or community hospitals, AMG's clinical services provide wraparound care or access to critical services like telestroke when they may not have any providers to meet these patients' needs. During natural disasters or emergent health events, AMG can quickly augment staffing. By delivering access to on-demand medical staffing, we believe AMG brings trust and stability to our clients hybrid care delivery solutions. Experienced Management Our management team has extensive operational experience in healthcare, technology and services. Our co-founders are experienced entrepreneurs with a proven track record of successfully founding, growing and leading multiple companies. Our executive leadership team has an average of 20 plus years of experience. We believe our management teams extensive business experience, along with the backing of key strategic healthcare investors, sets Amwell apart in the industry. Our Growth Strategies Drive Greater Adoption with our Existing Clients We intend to continue to drive greater adoption among existing clients in five ways: Expanding the populations to which our clients offer servicesHealth plans may begin by offering digital care offerings to a subset of their total membership and over time expand to more members. Health systems may start with a single hospital or region and then expand system-wide. Increasing adoption within existing populationsWe see significant increases in utilization among clients as providers and patients have become more aware of and comfortable with digital care, and as clients have embedded virtual care more fully into their operations. We use targeted patient and provider engagement campaigns, best practices training as well as operational support to further drive an increase in usage across our platform. Adding new solutionsMost clients begin with one or two solutions for hybrid care delivery, but then expand into additional use cases. For health plans, additional programs are typically focused around virtual primary care, behavioral health services, and a range of condition management services that meet the needs of employer clients as well as Medicare/caid Advantage. For health systems, additional solutions typically include an expanding range of specialty care use cases across the care continuum. Enabling the sale of new solutions and services for clients to sell to their consumers and B2B customersMany clients benefit from our scalable and configurable platform to create high-value programs to sell to their clients, whether it be virtual primary care staffed by their own providers, chronic care management programs or retail urgent care. Our future-ready, configurable enterprise platform allows clients to target specific populations and opens up new revenue sources, driving higher value. 7 Expanding their Carepoint suiteClients typically increase the number of Carepoint devices over time, as they penetrate additional locations and expand their own network of digital care delivery. As the number of Carepoint connections rise, utilization goes up and our clients recognize additional value. We intend to continue to promote our proprietary Carepoint devices and apps across our client base as we believe that expanded Carepoint offerings such as our TV kits will further expand usage of the platform. Invest in Platform to Continue to Expand Capabilities We continue to invest in our enterprise platform and software, developing new technologies, capabilities and programs that meet the broadening needs of our clients. We also partner with our clients and other stakeholders to build new features, modules and programs. Selectively Pursue Acquisitions Our comprehensive enterprise platform and software services enable us to selectively pursue strategic and complementary assets to support our clients needs. We have a track record of successfully identifying and integrating acquisitions and continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that complement our strong organic growth opportunities. Dispositions On January 8, 2025, Amwell entered into an asset purchase agreement relating to the sale of all property and assets owned, leased or licensed by Amwell's wholly owned subsidiary, Aligned Telehealth, LLC ("Aligned"), and affiliated clinical partner, Asana Integrated Medical Group ("Asana" and together with Aligned, "APC"), which are primarily used or held for use in connection with Amwells business of providing telepsychiatry services to hospitals and correctional programs (the "APC Business"), subject to certain specified exclusions such as cash. The purchase price is comprised of (i) an upfront cash payment of $20,714, which is equal to 1.1x the APC Businessatrailing twelve-month revenue, excluding on-site revenue attributable to certain of the APC Business contracts and subject to customary adjustments and (ii) an additional cash payment equal to 0.4x the buyer and its affiliates aggregate revenues arising from the provision of the APC Business, subject to limitations, during the twelve-month period immediately following the closing. Our Products The primary product we sell is access to the Amwell Converge platform, our enterprise, digital care delivery platform and software, via recurring subscriptions. We sell additional related services and solutions via configurable modules, partner programs, and Carepoint devices and services, including implementation, engagement, cart fleet management and integration. These additional services can be added to any base platform subscription. We augment customers successful adoption of virtual care delivery by also selling access to clinical services on a fee-for-service basis on our platform and through our direct-to-consumer app. Our Technology and Operations Our platform, software and services are designed to provide superior patient and provider experiences. Our scalable, secure architecture supports data exchange, integration with EHRs, other data repositories and third-party devices and access to third party clinical programs. Additionally, we offer a portfolio of services to our clients to support their digital care platform, including workflows and capabilities designed to: attract and retain patients and members, drive operational efficiency, encourage physician engagement, enable digital care delivery for health systems, and lower the cost of care for health plans. Clinical Services Capabilities Multiple Digital Practices Patient care is organized into online practices, analogous to a multi-specialty hospital building, allowing patients to choose from a variety of clinical offerings, ranging from primary to specialty care and from wellness to disease. Practices can be organized by clinical specialty (e.g., primary care, therapy, nutrition), by disease state (e.g., diabetes, asthma, hypertension) or by program type (e.g., smoking cessation, weight loss, wellness). Each practice typically represents a distinct clinical use case with its own associated client branding, patient workflows, associated providers, eligibility and pricing. These practices enable clients to attract patients and members and drive revenue with services they offer. 8 Visits For urgent care and walk-in clinic type use cases, patients can seek care on-demand whenever coverage is available (currently 50 states and D.C., 24/7 for urgent care via AMG providers). Patients are routed to the next available provider and can review the provider's credentials and biographical information before deciding whether to connect. For non-urgent cases, including primary care and specialty care, patients can schedule an appointment time. Appointments can be self-scheduled by patients or scheduled on their behalf by an administrator or provider. Provider availability can be synchronized with a clients master EHR schedule using our scheduling API, eliminating the need for duplicate, and potentially conflicting scheduling, systems for physical and online appointments. Alternatively, quick-link scheduled visits functionality allows providers to initiate both scheduled and on-demand visits by sending an email or text message invitation. Visit requests can also be triggered automatically by client-configured analytics and alarms using our Telehealth Now web service. Within a few clicks, patients go from email to live video visit, without ever having to manually register or download any software. This provider-initiated visit functionality is useful for both follow-up and more general population health and care management programs. Physician Brokerage and Utilization Efficiency Our patented, real-time brokerage engine matches each patient with the list of available and eligible providers, based on licensing requirements and client-configurable clinical, business and regulatory rules. In this way, we are distinguished from other callback models where provider choice is much more limited and is unable to occur real-time. When patients seek services, one or more potentially available providers are digitally paged or notified based on client-configurable business rules. The first provider to accept the visit request is assigned the patient. Together, these matching technologies ensure the most efficient use of available providers, allowing even busy clinicians to schedule in virtual visit patients between in-person appointments, after hours, or in place of no-shows and cancellations. Overall Platform Design User Experience The Amwell Converge platform is designed to be a consistent experience across any application, workflow or access point for both providers and patients. The entire user experience is brandable by the client, letting providers and patients know they are meeting under the trusted brand of their preferred healthcare organization, driving brand affinity. Additionally, the modular architecture allows for swappable exchange of the entire A/V experience, allowing different vendors or capabilities such as payments or identity management to be quickly integrated in response to client need. The user experience also has been designed to allow a patient to easily join a visit through Click to Join features: patients can join video visits by clicking on an email or text message, no registration or download required. Tech checks ensure adequate connectivity, browser compatibility and the correct A/V setting, minimizing the risk of dropped or interrupted visits. Security and Reliability The Amwell Converge platform has been designed to be secure and scalable; testing is automated and includes security scans, all vetted by our QA team. These scans are also vetted by our dedicated cybersecurity team, which includes security experts who monitor and address issues around the clock. We also have a full, evidence-grade digital forensics system that provides real-time analysis using multiple cloud forensic tools to our cybersecurity team. Amwell adheres to what we believe to be the highest security standards in the industry, using Auth0 with OAuth 2.0 SSO webRTC for in-browser video and Googles Healthcare API for secure and standardized data storage. These security capabilities ensure that clients and patients' data are held to high standards, limiting the impact of and ability for cyberattacks. 9 Scalability and Innovation The Amwell Converge platform allows providers to easily expand their use of digital care, taking advantage of highly scalable managed services from best-in-class technology partners. A serverless multi-cloud microservices architecture lets Amwell adapt to any scale of processing power needed to address visit volumes. Clients can quickly implement a unique experience for patients and providers and embed any workflow in their own branded web and mobile solutions with low code / no code custom development. As digital care delivery continues to evolve, Amwell clients and partners have the flexibility and agility to scale virtual care 10x, or 1,000x, as needed. Interoperability The Amwell Converge platform is built on FHIR (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) not an antiquated, proprietary data model that needs to be translated to HL7 standards. All data within the platform works with healthcare organizations systems and any EHR. Being FHIR-native allows the platform to be interoperable with the entire healthcare ecosystem and creates an open platform for third-party developers. App Framework We have opened the Amwell Converge platform to others to build on and expand its abilities. The platform can host and operate applications created by outside developers, whether to serve their own organizations or offer innovations to our large ecosystem. The FHIR APIs at the core of the platform can invoke and give context to any external service, which can then be hosted inside the digital care experience, right in the field of view between the patient and the clinician. This app framework allows clients to deliver better, more efficient access to effective care, helping to close gaps in care, enhance treatment and better enable provider-to-patient relationships. Technology Back-end Architecture Secure, Scalable, Hosted Environment We use secure, redundant data centers designed with high levels of availability, redundant subsystems, and compartmentalized security zones. With our platform as a service digital care solution, there is no need for clients to purchase hardware, install and upgrade software, or manage system operations. The hosted approach ensures that visit capacity scales without requiring client-side interventions or upgrades. We manage hosting operations and security, which is monitored 24/7 by our Cyber Command Center (C3) and NOC. We historically deliver high levels of system uptime across our platform. Due to the sensitive nature of our client and patient data, we have invested heavily in data security and protection. We utilize a multi-tiered security architecture. All data are secured both in motion and at rest using the latest encryption technologies. Our C3 team constantly monitors for vulnerabilities and intrusions, including using third-party vulnerability and penetration testing. We maintain HITRUST, ISO 27001 and PCI compliance certifications. Our system security is regularly evaluated and approved by some of the largest health plans, health systems, financial institutions and technology companies in the world. Amwell has deployed its Digital Behavioral Health, Automated Care, and Scheduled Visits within the EMR products on the Defense Health Agencys production environment as part of our continued work in the Federal sector. We believe this underscores the advanced security posture that Amwell maintains. Reporting and Analytics We provide a range of standard administrative, utilization and clinical reports. More advanced analytics are user-accessible via our Looker data exploration and discovery business intelligence tool. Branding and Embeddable Experiences We support differentiated client experiences by offering the ability to fully brand (white label) our software as well as to use our APIs and embeddable widgets for both the patient and provider experiences, covering the relevant web and mobile interfaces (iOS and Android). These capabilities allow clients to seamlessly embed our end-to-end patient and provider digital care functionality in their own websites, software and mobile applications. Such embedding is designed to give patients and providers a consistent user experience without having to switch tabs or windows, additional logins or additional app downloads. 10 For example, some health systems have embedded our solutions in their branded patient portals. From a provider perspective, clients are embedding the provider virtual care workflow in their EHRs so that online visits are as easy to schedule and conduct as physical visits. Sales and Marketing We sell our digital care solution through our direct sales organization. Our direct sales team is comprised of enterprise-focused field sales professionals who are organized principally by geography and specialty overlays. Our sales operations staff, who support our direct sales team, includes product technology experts, lead generation professionals and sales data experts. We maintain relationships with key industry participants including media publications, industry analyst firms, benefit consultants, brokers, group purchasing organizations and health plan and health system partners. Channel partners also play a key role in marketing and selling our products to our client base, primarily focusing on the Amwell Converge platform and Carepoint devices. Channel partners may shorten our sales cycle and lower our client acquisition costs. For example, through EHR channel partners we are able to natively embed our technology into existing health system technology infrastructure which, as a competitive differentiator, may lead to a higher win rate. Carepoint channel partners primarily consist of value-added resellers that have established relationships with health systems and health plans. We typically generate lower revenues in connection with sales obtained through these channel partner agreements. Clinical Quality AMG seeks to provide the highest level of clinical quality and consistency of care. All medical professionals go through a rigorous onboarding and credential checking process. When practicing online, doctors are required to deliver care in a medically appropriate setting. We offer similar best practices and training to our clients who utilize their own providers. Patients consistently rate AMG providers highly, with an average rating of 4.8 out of 5.0. AMG's clinical operations team works to standardize virtual medical treatment by creating and maintaining standard operating procedures. This team also monitors waiting room queues and can reassign providers and patients as needed. The team uses analytics to test for appropriateness and efficiency of care as well as prescribing behaviors. AMG's team of nurses uses algorithms to identify potential quality issues and conducts manual reviews of clinical cases, utilizing a random audit process in addition to targeted audits, to ensure high quality care is consistently delivered. Finally, a monthly scorecard is distributed to all AMG providers showing their individual and comparative performance. For urgent care, the median wait time is less than 4 minutes for the 24 months ended December 31, 2024. Research and Development Our ability to continue to differentiate and enhance our platform and offerings depends, in large part, on our capacity to continue to introduce new services, technologies, features and functionality. Our research and development team is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our solution. We maintain development offices in Ramat Gan, Israel and Bogot and Medellin, Colombia, to support our international partners and to serve as an additional development resources. In addition, we utilize certain third-party development services to perform application development. We focus our research and development spend on developing new products and further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of our products. Physicians and Healthcare Professionals Due to the prevalence of the corporate practice of medicine doctrine (as defined in Item 1A. Risk Factors), including in the states where we predominantly conduct our business, we provide administrative and management services to entities associated with AMG (which are consolidated subsidiaries from a financial reporting perspective) pursuant to which those entities reserve exclusive control and responsibility for all aspects of the practice of medicine and the delivery of medical services. We contract to provide administrative services through business support agreements (BSAs) with AMGs provider groups. AMG in turn contracts with providers. Our business support agreements typically run for ten years and call for us to be paid an annual fee in exchange for managing all administrative aspects of the medical practice in question. It has been the historical practice of the parties to review and adjust this fee on an annual basis. In addition, we have signed direct transfer agreements with the AMG entities. These direct transfer agreements outline the conditions under which we have the right to change the ownership of the clinical entity to a different third party. 11 In 2012, we entered into a joint venture with an affiliate of Elevance Health, Inc. (formerly Anthem, Inc.) to form National Telehealth Network, LLC (NTN). NTN, which is consolidated in our financial statements, is greater than 50% owned by us. NTN is managed by a six (6) person Board of Managing Directors, with the Chairman of the Board appointed by us. NTNs mandate is to oversee the clinical and administrative operations of Online Care Group, a clinical entity within the AMG family. Online Care Group is dedicated to providing clinical consults on Elevance Healths LiveHealth Online virtual care platform to Elevance Health members and other users of that platform. Under a BSA agreement, NTN has agreed to provide exclusive administrative, management and other business support services to Online Care Group. The non-medical functions and services NTN provides under the BSA include the maintenance of medical, billing and accounting records, legal, human resources and the administration of quality assurance, and administration of a risk management program. Additionally, NTN is required to maintain medical malpractice insurance for covered providers as well as appropriate general liability, directors and officers, workers compensation and employment practices insurance. The BSA had an original 10-year term that automatically renewed for an additional 5-year term expiring in February 2028. The BSA automatically renews for 5-year renewals, unless earlier terminated upon mutual agreement of the parties or unilaterally by a party following a material default under the BSA by the non-terminating party. NTN, in turn, has subcontracted all of its responsibilities under the BSA between NTN and Online Care Group to Amwell, under substantially similar terms. Amwell has signed direct BSAs with the other AMG affiliated entities to provide similar administrative and management services for a fixed fee. U.S. Government Regulation Our operations are subject to comprehensive United States federal, state and local regulations and international regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Our ability to operate profitably will depend in part upon our ability, and that of AMG's providers, to maintain all necessary licenses and to operate in compliance with applicable laws and rules. Those laws and rules continue to evolve, and we therefore devote significant resources to monitoring developments in healthcare and medical practice regulation. As the applicable laws and rules change, we are likely to make conforming modifications in our business processes from time to time. In some jurisdictions where we operate, neither our current nor our anticipated business model has been the subject of formal judicial or administrative interpretation. We cannot be assured that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities will not result in determinations that could adversely affect our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that impacts our operations. During the COVID-19 pandemic, state and federal regulatory authorities loosened or removed a number of regulatory requirements in order to increase the availability of digital care services. For example, changes were made to the Medicare and Medicaid programs (through waivers and other regulatory authority) to increase access to digital care services by, among other things, increasing reimbursement, permitting the enrollment of out of state providers and eliminating prior authorization requirements. Most Medicare reimbursement flexibilities have been extended through March 31, 2025, including a waiver for geographic site restrictions (patient may be located at home), the expansion of eligible provider types, and coverage for audio-only consults. Although it is uncertain whether regulatory changes adopted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic will be preserved in the future, we believe that a return to the pre-pandemic regulatory regimes would not have a material negative impact on our commercial agreements, visit volume or visit revenue. In fact, we believe that such a return would benefit the Company as the renewed enforcement of HIPAA regulations may force many marginal digital care platforms out of the marketplace, thereby lessening our competition. Digital Care Provider Licensing, Medical Practice, Certification and Related Laws and Guidelines The practice of medicine is subject to various federal, state and local certification and licensing laws, regulations, approvals and standards, relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, the practice of medicine (including the provision of remote care), equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and the prerequisites for the prescription of medication and ordering of tests. The application of some of these laws to digital care is unclear and subject to differing interpretation. 12 Clinicians who provide professional medical services to a patient via digital care must, in most instances, hold a valid license to practice medicine in the state in which the patient is located. We have established systems for ensuring that AMG and client clinicians are appropriately licensed under applicable state law and that their provision of digital care to our members occurs in each instance in compliance with applicable rules governing digital care. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in licensure actions against the clinicians, our services being found to be non-reimbursable, or prior payments being subject to recoupments and can give rise to civil, criminal or administrative penalties. Corporate Practice of Medicine Laws in the U.S.; Fee Splitting We contract with physicians or physician-owned professional associations and professional corporations to provide access to our enterprise platform to them and their patients. We have entered into management services contracts with AMG-affiliated entities pursuant to which we provide them with billing, scheduling and a wide range of other administrative and management services, and they pay us for those services via management and other service fees. These contractual relationships are subject to various state laws, including those of New York, Texas and California, that prohibit fee splitting or the practice of medicine by lay entities or persons and that are intended to prevent unlicensed persons from interfering with or influencing a physicians professional judgment. Activities other than those directly related to the delivery of healthcare may be considered an element of the practice of medicine in many states. Under the corporate practice of medicine restrictions of certain states, decisions and activities such as scheduling, contracting, setting rates and the hiring and management of non-clinical personnel may implicate the restrictions on the corporate practice of medicine. State corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting laws and rules vary from state to state and are not always consistent among states. In addition, these requirements are subject to broad interpretation and enforcement by state regulators. Some of these requirements may apply to us even if we do not have a physical presence in the state, based solely on our engagement of a provider licensed in the state or the provision of digital care to a resident of the state. Thus, regulatory authorities or other parties, including our providers, may assert that, despite these arrangements, we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that our contractual arrangements with affiliated physician groups constitute unlawful fee splitting. In such event, failure to comply could lead to adverse judicial or administrative action against us and/or our affiliated providers, civil, criminal or administrative penalties, receipt of cease-and-desist orders from state regulators, loss of provider licenses, the need to make changes to the terms of engagement of our providers that interfere with our business, and other materially adverse consequences. U.S. Federal and State Fraud and Abuse Laws Federal Stark Law We are subject to the federal self-referral prohibitions, commonly known as the Stark Law. Where applicable, this law prohibits a physician from referring Medicare patients for designated health services such as laboratory and radiology services that are furnished at an entity if the physician or a member of such physicians immediate family has a financial relationship with the entity, unless an exception applies. Penalties for violating or participating in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law include denial of payment, mandatory refunds, civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from the federal health care programs. The Stark Law is a strict liability statute, which means proof of specific intent to violate the law is not required. In addition, the government and some courts have taken the position that claims presented in violation of the various statutes, including the Stark Law, can be considered a violation of the federal False Claims Act (described below) based on the contention that a provider impliedly certifies compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and other rules when submitting claims for reimbursement. A determination of liability under the Stark Law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute We are also subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broadly worded and prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, (i) the referral of a person covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs, (ii) the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing of items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs or (iii) the purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging or recommending purchasing, leasing or ordering of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if one purpose of a payment is to induce referrals. In addition, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation, making it easier for the government to prove that a defendant had the requisite state of mind or scienter required for a violation. Moreover, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute 13 constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act, as discussed below. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties, and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Imposition of any of these remedies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to a few statutory exceptions, the OIG has published safe-harbor regulations that outline categories of activities that are deemed protected from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute provided all applicable criteria are met. The failure of a financial relationship to meet all of the applicable safe harbor criteria does not necessarily mean that the particular arrangement violates the Anti-Kickback Statute. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. Although we believe that our arrangements with physicians and other referral sources comply with current law and available interpretative guidance, as a practical matter, it is not always possible to structure our arrangements so as to fall squarely within an available safe harbor. Where that is the case, we cannot guarantee that applicable regulatory authorities will determine these financial arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other applicable laws, including state anti-kickback laws. False Claims Act Both federal and state government agencies have continued civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies and their executives and managers. Although there are a number of civil and criminal statutes that can be applied to healthcare providers, a significant number of these investigations involve the federal False Claims Act. These investigations can be initiated not only by the government but also by a private party asserting direct knowledge of fraud. These qui tam whistleblower lawsuits may be initiated against any person or entity alleging such person or entity has knowingly or recklessly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or has made a false statement or used a false record to get a claim approved. In addition, the improper retention of an overpayment for 60 days or more is also a basis for a False Claim Act action, even if the claim was originally submitted appropriately. Penalties for False Claims Act violations include fines and exclusion from federally funded healthcare programs. In addition, some states have adopted similar fraud, whistleblower and false claims provisions. Foreign and State Fraud and Abuse Laws Several states and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have also adopted or may adopt similar fraud, whistleblower and false claims laws as described above. The scope of these laws and the interpretations of them vary by jurisdiction and are enforced by local courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. Some state fraud and abuse laws apply to items or services reimbursed by Medicaid programs and any third party payer, including commercial insurers or to any payer, including to funds paid out of pocket by a patient. A determination of liability under such state fraud and abuse laws could result in fines and penalties and restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions. Other Healthcare Laws HIPAA established several separate criminal penalties for making false or fraudulent claims to insurance companies and other non-governmental payers of healthcare services. Under HIPAA, these two additional federal crimes are: Healthcare Fraud and False Statements Relating to Healthcare Matters. The Healthcare Fraud statute prohibits knowingly and recklessly executing a scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment, or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The False Statements Relating to Healthcare Matters statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact by any trick, scheme or device or making any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. This statute could be used by the government to assert criminal liability if a healthcare provider knowingly fails to refund an overpayment. These provisions are intended to punish some of the same conduct in the submission of claims to private payers as the federal False Claims Act covers in connection with governmental health programs. In addition, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law imposes civil administrative sanctions for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federally funded healthcare programs and employing or contracting with individuals or entities who are excluded from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. Moreover, a person who offers or transfers to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration, including waivers of copayments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof), that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiarys selection of a particular 14 provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services may be liable for civil monetary penalties. Moreover, in certain cases, providers who routinely waive copayments and deductibles for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries can also be held liable under the Anti-Kickback Statute and civil False Claims Act, which can impose additional penalties associated with the wrongful act. One of the statutory exceptions to the prohibition is non-routine, unadvertised waivers of copayments or deductible amounts based on individualized determinations of financial need or exhaustion of reasonable collection efforts. The OIG emphasizes, however, that this exception should only be used occasionally to address special financial needs of a particular patient. Although this prohibition applies only to federal healthcare program beneficiaries, the routine waivers of copayments and deductibles offered to patients covered by commercial payers may implicate applicable state laws related to, among other things, unlawful schemes to defraud, excessive fees for services, tortious interference with patient contracts, and statutory or common law fraud. U.S. State and Federal Health Information Privacy and Security Laws There are numerous U.S. federal and state laws and regulations related to the privacy and security of PII, including health information. In particular, HIPAA establishes privacy and security standards that limit the use and disclosure of PHI, and require the implementation of administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of PII, including health information, in electronic form. AMG, our health system clients, and our health plan clients are all regulated as covered entities under HIPAA. We are a business associate of our covered entity clients when we are working on behalf of our covered entity clients including our affiliated medical groups and also when we are providing technology services to those clients via our enterprise platform. As a business associate, we are also directly regulated by HIPAA and are required to provide satisfactory written assurances to our covered entity clients through written business associate agreements that we will provide our services in accordance with HIPAA. Failure to comply with these contractual agreements could lead to loss of clients, contractual liability to our clients, and direct action by HHS, including monetary penalties. Violations of HIPAA may result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Our management responsibilities to AMG include assisting it with its obligations under HIPAAs breach notification rule. Under the breach notification rule, covered entities must notify affected individuals without unreasonable delay in the case of a breach of unsecured PHI, which may compromise the privacy, security or integrity of the PHI. In addition, notification must be provided to HHS and the local media in cases where a breach affects more than 500 individuals. Breaches affecting fewer than 500 individuals must be reported to HHS on an annual basis. HIPAA also requires a business associate to notify its covered entity clients of breaches by the business associate. State attorneys general also have the right to prosecute HIPAA violations committed against residents of their states. While HIPAA does not create a private right of action that would allow individuals to sue in civil court for a HIPAA violation, its standards have been used as the basis for the duty of care in state civil suits, such as those for negligence or recklessness in misusing personal information. In addition, HIPAA mandates that HHS conduct periodic compliance audits of HIPAA covered entities and their business associates for compliance. It also tasks HHS with establishing a methodology whereby harmed individuals who were the victims of breaches of unsecured PHI may receive a percentage of the Civil Monetary Penalty fine paid by the violator. In light of the HIPAA Omnibus Final Rule, recent enforcement activity, and statements from HHS, we expect increased federal and state HIPAA privacy and security enforcement efforts. Many states in which we operate and in which our patients reside also have laws or are in the process of adopting laws that protect the privacy and security of sensitive and personal information, including health information. These laws may be similar to or even more protective or broader than HIPAA and other federal privacy laws. Where state laws are more protective or broader than HIPAA, we must comply with the state laws we are subject to, in addition to HIPAA. In certain cases, it may be necessary to modify our planned operations and procedures to comply with these more stringent state laws. Not only may some of these state laws impose fines and penalties upon violators, but, unlike HIPAA, some may afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their personal information has been misused. In addition, state laws are changing rapidly, and there is discussion of a new federal privacy law or federal breach notification law, to which we may be subject. In addition to HIPAA and state health information privacy laws, we may be subject to other state and federal privacy laws, including laws that prohibit unfair privacy and security acts or practices and deceptive statements about privacy and security and laws that place specific requirements on certain types of activities, such as data security and texting. The FTC and state attorneys general have brought enforcement actions and prosecuted some data breach cases as unfair and/or deceptive acts or practices under the FTC Act and similar state laws. 15 In recent years, there have been a number of well publicized data breaches involving the improper use and disclosure of PII and PHI. Many states have responded to these incidents by enacting laws requiring holders of personal information to maintain safeguards and to take certain actions in response to a data breach, such as providing prompt notification of the breach to affected individuals and state officials and provide credit monitoring services and/or other relevant services to impacted individuals. In addition, under HIPAA and pursuant to the related contracts that we enter into with our clients who are covered entities, we must report breaches of unsecured PHI to our clients following discovery of the breach. Notification must also be made in certain circumstances to affected individuals, federal authorities and others. International Regulation Our international operations are and will be subject to different, and sometimes more stringent, legal and regulatory requirements, which vary widely by jurisdiction, including anti-corruption laws; economic sanctions laws; various privacy, insurance, tax, tariff and trade laws and regulations; corporate governance, privacy, data protection (including the EU General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and the UK General Data Protection Regulation ("UK GDPR")), data mining, data transfer, labor and employment, intellectual property, consumer protection and investment laws and regulations; discriminatory licensing procedures; required localization of records and funds; and limitations on dividends and repatriation of capital. In addition, the expansion of our operations into foreign countries increases our exposure to the anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering provisions of U.S. law, including the FCPA, and corresponding foreign laws, including the UK Bribery Act. The FCPA prohibits offering, promising or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. We also are subject to applicable anti-corruption laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and the DOJ have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act is an anti-corruption law that is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to all companies with a nexus to the United Kingdom. Disclosures of FCPA violations may be shared with the UK authorities, thus potentially exposing companies to liability and potential penalties in multiple jurisdictions. We have internal control policies and procedures and conduct training and compliance programs for our employees to deter prohibited practices. However, if our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws governing our international operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. We also are subject to regulation by OFAC. OFAC administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign countries and regimes, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers, those engaged in activities related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and other threats to the national security, foreign policy or economy of the United States. In addition, we may be subject to similar regulations in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. International Privacy and Data Protection Laws As a result of our presence in Europe and some of our customers being located in the European Union and the United Kingdom, we are subject to applicable international laws and regulations related to privacy and the protection of personal data (including data concerning health), in particular the GDPR and the UK GDPR. These regimes impose stringent data protection requirements and may increase both the risk of noncompliance and the costs of providing our products and services in a compliant manner. The GDPR establishes data protection principles that govern the lawful use of personal data, requires privacy by design, and technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk. The regulation grants rights for data subjects in regard to their personal data (including the right to be forgotten and the right to data portability) and enhances pre-existing rights (e.g., data subject access requests). GDPR is directly applicable in EU member states, which provides a degree of consistency. Member states may have additional national data protection and privacy laws. The UK has adopted the UK GDPR and Data Protection Act. The GDPR and UK data protection law may increasingly diverge from each other, thereby increasing both our compliance costs and the potential for noncompliance. 16 Our European clinical operations team and our health care clients in Europe are regulated as data controllers under GDPR. We are a data processor for our data controller clients when we are working on their behalf and also when we are providing technology services to those clients via the Amwell Platform. As a data processor, we are also directly regulated by GDPR and are required to provide satisfactory written assurances to our clients through written data processing agreements that we will provide our services in accordance with GDPR. Failure to comply with these agreements could lead to loss of clients, contractual liability to our clients, and direct action by European data protection authorities, including monetary penalties. GDPR and similar comprehensive data protection laws apply to personal data broadly across sectors. GDPR applies to personal data relating to all categories of data subjects including patients, job applicants, employees, contractors, client workforce members, business contacts, and web visitors. We are the data controller where we decide the purpose and means of processing data for a given activity, such as recruit mentor marketing. In addition, the GDPR imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EEA to a third country, including the United States. The same is true for the UK GDPR. In July 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) limited how organizations could lawfully transfer personal data from the EEA to the United States by invalidating the EU-US Privacy Shield and imposing further restrictions on use of the standard contractual clauses, which could affect our ability to efficiently process personal data from the EEA. The EU-US Privacy Shield has been replaced by an enhanced legal mechanism for data transfer namely the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (DPF) and the UK Extension to the DPF. However, the validity of the DPF is likely to be challenged before the CJEU. These obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other requirements or our practices. We may have obligations under GDPRs personal data breach notification requirements. Under the breach notification requirements, notification must be provided to the national data protection authority without undue delay and within 72 hours, unless the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects. In addition, data controllers must notify affected data subjects without unreasonable delay in the case of a personal data breach that is likely to result in a high risk to their rights and freedoms. GDPR also requires a data processor to notify its data controller clients of breaches by the data processor. A violation of the GDPR or UK GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, fines and sanctions, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, assessment notices (for a compulsory audit), and civil claims, including representative actions and other class action-type litigation. Data protection authorities may initiate legal proceedings against data controllers or processors for GDPR violations. Data subjects have a right to lodge a complaint with the data protection authority and the right to an effective judicial remedy against a controller or processor. GDPR also establishes a right to compensation for damage as result of infringement. Data subjects can mandate a not-for-profit body, organization or association to exercise these remedies and to collect compensation on their behalf. In light of recent enforcement activity, and statements from data protection authorities and the European Data Protection Board, we expect continued enforcement efforts. In addition to the GDPR, in Europe we are subject to the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive (ePrivacyDirective) and national implementing legislation in the UK and EU member states. The ePrivacy Directive requires that consent must be obtained to read or write data on a users device, for example tracking cookies, except where strictly necessary to provide the service. The ePrivacy Directive also governs unsolicited email and SMS text message marketing. Outside Europe we are subject to privacy and data protection laws in other locations where we operate including Australia, Canada, and South Africa. These jurisdictions have sectoral health information privacy laws and comprehensive privacy laws similar to GDPR in scope. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Initiatives Our values are core to who we are and serve as the foundation on which we are able to build a strong organization and promote the long-term interests of our stockholders and stakeholders. We have made meaningful progress on our ESG goals and reported on this progress in our 2024 Corporate Responsibility Report. Following the publication of our inaugural report in 2022 and annually thereafter, we reached out to our top stakeholders who validated our approach to ESG, which is focused on establishing goals and achieving incremental 17 improvement year over year. Our ESG Taskforce, made up of subject matter experts from across the Amwell HR, Legal, and Investor Relations teams, as well as outside consultants and working with oversight from the Board of Directors ("Board"), steadily advanced our comprehensive ESG strategy connected to our strategic business initiatives. In 2024, to build on our commitment to environmental responsibility, we conducted our first greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) inventory capturing our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions, which stems from electricity consumption at our leased office spaces. With our goal of enabling the healthcare industry to move forward into a digital-first paradigm, we are committed to lowering the carbon emissions and overall environmental impact of the delivery of healthcare, including our own. Our Corporate Responsibility Report is available on the investor relations page of our website. Our website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report available on our website, is not incorporated by reference into this report. Our commitment to viewing our business through an ESG lens is strong and we continue to be guided by three pillars: Our People, Our Products and Our Operations. Our ESG Framework Our Products Our People Our Operations Operational efficiencies Environmental stewardship Clinician shortages and burnout Patient experience and outcomes Expanding access to care Talent development & engagement Total rewards and wellbeing Recruitment Social responsibility investing in our communities Cybersecurity & data privacy Compliance & ethics Our company was founded by industry veterans, their passion, energy and expertise have contributed to our success as a leading digital care platform company. We continue to expand our sphere of expertise and have implemented an oversight structure that is designed to enhance our strategic objectives. Our management team is governed by our Board, which works alongside management to determine our business strategy, ensure the sustainable growth of the company, and oversee our enterprise risks and opportunities and ESG initiatives. Our Board consists of nine (9) directors, of whom 22% are women and 78% are independent, who bring a variety of perspectives, experience, and backgrounds to their role of supervising and advising management. Amwell Culture Mission and Values Our culture is grounded in our mission to connect and enable providers, payers, patients and innovators to deliver greater access to more affordable, higher quality care. Our values are core to who we are and serve as the foundation on which we are able to build a strong organization filled with employees who deliver exceptional products and services to our clients. At our core we are: Customer First Focused on understanding and supporting clients by embracing change, innovating and enriching patient-provide relationships; One Team Focused on hiring and developing outstanding people who are encouraged to stay informed and speak up, to celebrate our similarities and honor our difference, and to serve our communities; and Deliver Awesome Focused on bringing passion and energy, acting with integrity, working with agility and a sense of urgency, being accountable, and delivering quality in all we do. Guided by our mission and values, we are committed to achieving excellence on behalf of our employees, clients and partners and the patients and providers we serve. 18 Human Capital - Investing in our Employees We continually seek ways to attract, grow, develop and retain an exceptionally talented and motivated workforce. We build upon our One Team core value by creating and enhancing our range of programs that increase engagement and employee resources. Our employees are our most valuable asset. As of December 31, 2024, we had 877 full-time employees of which 83% are based in the United States, spread out across 46 states, 7% in Ireland, 4% in Israel, 4% in Colombia and 2% in the UK. Recruitment In 2024, we continued to focus on building a strong pipeline of talent. Amwell has and continues to build partnerships with universities and other organizations across the country and has implemented a competitive intern program to develop a unique candidate pool. In addition, our virtual workforce strategy has allowed us to continue our focus on a global recruitment strategy to hire from all geographies in which we operate. As of December 31, 2024, women represented nearly 49% of our global employees, and 33% of our employees are non-white. Growth and Development We promote the continued growth and development of our employees. Through our learning management system, we create meaningful pathways for our employees to build the technical and comprehensive sales skills they need, including through role-specific trainings and certifications. We support our managers with leadership training, a 360 program and coaching. Our annual performance review process and frequent coaching opportunities create avenues for personal, professional, and leadership growth and development. In addition, we encourage on-going external learning and development opportunities with our tuition assistance program. Total Rewards To support employees, we provide a comprehensive and competitive total rewards framework that is not only grounded in our mission to attract, engage and retain top talent, but is relevant, equitable, comprehensible, and flexible to meet the needs of our employees. Amwell offers competitive compensation packages consisting of, but not limited to, base salary, short-term incentive bonus and long-term equity, that are linked to individual and company performance to ensure employees are rewarded for individual and company success. There is a high emphasis placed on utilizing benchmarks to ensure fair and equitable compensation packages at all levels of the organization. Recognizing that our employees are all unique and have different physical, mental, financial and social needs, Amwell also provides a robust suite of benefit and wellbeing programs to support the total being of each of our employees including, but not limited to, health insurance, retirement and pension plans, generous paid time off policies, an employee stock purchase program (ESPP), free access to Amwells digital care services, income replacement benefits, flexible scheduling, remote working opportunities, and paid parental leave. Total Rewards Framework Compensation o Base Salary o Short-Term Incentives o Long-Term Incentives o Employee Stock Purchase Program Benefits o Healthcare o Retirement/Pension o Life, Disability, and Income Protection o Voluntary Benefits o Mental Wellbeing Support Work-Life o Virtual First Work Environment o Paid Time Off o Leave Programs o EAP Program 19 Rewards and Recognition o Recognition Program o Performance Feedback o Annual Merit and Bonus Program o Service Anniversaries Development o Tuition Assistance o Training Opportunities o Leadership Development Engagement We value and solicit employee feedback and listen to all of our employees through various outlets, including all hands meetings and yearly engagement surveys. These avenues have provided us with valuable perspectives that have shaped our investments in programs and initiatives for our employees. Employee feedback shaped the creation of our MVP Framework, Total Rewards Framework, and internal communication improvements. The Amwell employee voice is the most powerful tool we have for increasing our engagement and the development of a strong and inclusive team. Amwell has an open-door policy where employees are always welcome to voice concerns about anything related to Amwell or their employment. They have avenues such as Human Resources, Legal or the ability to submit concerns anonymously through our ethics hotline or by phone. Living our Mission, Values, and Purpose Our culture is grounded in our mission, values and purpose. We believe we will only be able to achieve our mission, live by our values and be purpose-driven if we are focused on creating a culture of inclusion, act in a socially responsible manner, enable health equity and promote business sustainability. Our MVP Framework serves as a guide to empower our employees to live by our mission, value and purpose (MVP) in their work for and on behalf of Amwell. MVP Framework Elevating inclusiveness at Amwell Business Sustainability Environment, Social, Governance & Ethical Accountability Creating a profitable growth business that contributes to a more prosperous, sustainable and healthy world Holding ourselves accountable for measuring and managing our performance across ESG issues Social Responsibility Volunteering, Community involvement, Giving back, Serving our network Giving back to our community Leveraging our position in the market to support/help those in need Fostering a sense of purpose and connection to our mission Health Equity Equal access to care, Addressing Social Determinants of Health, enabling clients and informing ourselves on how health disparities and SDOH impact our clients and health outcomes Leveraging cross-functional data to enhance culturally intelligent application of Amwell solutions Enable our ecosystem to improve access to equitable care Investing in our Communities Amwell Cares is our Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative. Guided by Amwells purpose, mission and values, Amwell Cares is committed to enriching and giving back to the communities we serve, working as One Team to drive the greatest positive impact. Driven by employees, with executive oversight, Amwell Cares works to support various causes, including health equity, hunger relief, and natural disaster recovery, through a variety of activities, including but not limited 20 to company matches, sponsorship of and participation in charity walks/runs, donations and volunteer opportunities, and pro bono healthcare services delivered to communities affected by hurricane, fire or flood. Employees also are encouraged to volunteer on their own and are given a designated volunteer day to allow them time to give back in their local community. In 2024, Amwell continues to donate cash and pro bono healthcare services to support our local communities. Employees also volunteered more than 200 hours of their time to support their communities. Social Responsibility & Health Equity Social responsibility is deeply embedded in our mission-oriented corporate culture. We never forget that beyond the daily numbers and operating tasks, our goal is to transform how healthcare is delivered by improving access, convenience, economics and quality of care via digital care for all. We are proud of our ability to extend access to both primary and specialty care in healthcare deserts that exist in both rural and urban pockets domestically and even more so internationally. To ensure we are creating equal and equitable access to care globally, we seek to improve outcomes in care disparities and social determinants of health by leveraging our unique place in the healthcare ecosystem. In 2024, Amwell launched a Health Equity Task Force focused on 1) increasing cultural competencies around access, products and services, 2) leveraging cross-functional data to enhance culturally intelligent application of Amwell solutions, and 3) enabling our ecosystem to improve access to equitable care. Intellectual Property Our patent portfolio consists of approximately 46 patents and 1 pending patent application related to our software and technology. We do not currently consider any of our patents to be material to our business. We continue to submit patent applications for new inventions and ideas we develop as well as monitor competitors in an effort to protect our intellectual property. We own and use trademarks and service marks on or in connection with our services, including both unregistered common law marks and issued trademark registrations in the United States and other geographies. In addition, we rely on certain intellectual property rights that we license from third parties and on other forms of intellectual property rights and measures, including trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary processes and nondisclosure agreements, to maintain and protect proprietary aspects of our products and technologies. We require our employees, consultants and certain contractors to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us inventions conceived during the term of their employment or engagement while using our property or which relate to our business. From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings relating to intellectual property arising in the ordinary course of our business, including oppositions to our applications for trademarks or patents, challenges to the validity of our intellectual property rights, and claims of intellectual property infringement. We are not presently a party to any such legal proceedings that, in the opinion of our management, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Seasonality Visit volumes typically follow the annual flu season, rising during quarter four and quarter one and falling in the summer months. While we sell to and implement our solutions to clients year-round, we experience some seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our clients and when we launch our solutions to members. We typically enter into a higher percentage of agreements with new clients, as well as renewal agreements with existing clients, in the first and fourth quarters. Regardless of when the agreement is entered into, we can typically complete client implementation in an average of approximately three months. Additional Information Our website address is https://business.amwell.com. We make available free of charge at the Investors section of this website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish such materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or 21 SEC. Information on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into reference any of our filings with the SEC, except where we expressly incorporate such information. Other To the extent required by Item 1 of Form 10-K, the information contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 22 Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are several risks related to our business and our ability to leverage our strengths that are described in further detail below. Among these important risks are the following: our history of losses and the risk we may not achieve profitability; our limited number of significant clients (including our largest client by revenue, Elevance Health, which accounted for 23%, 24% and 27% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2023 and 2024, respectively) and the risk that we may lose their business; weak growth and increased volatility in the digital care market; inability to adapt to rapid technological changes; increased competition from existing and potential new participants in the healthcare industry; our clients acceptance of the Amwell Converge platform and our ability and the costs to further develop this platform; changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends as well as our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; slower than expected growth in patient adoption of digital care and in platform usage by either clients or patients; the impact of seasonal viruses on our business or on our ability to forecast our businesss financial outlook; inability to grow our base of affiliated and non-affiliated providers utilizing the Amwell Platform to a number sufficient to serve patient demand; our ability to comply with federal, state and foreign privacy regulations and the significant liability that could result from a cybersecurity breach or our failure to comply with such regulations; and holders of our Class A common stock have limited or no ability to influence corporate matters due to the multiple class structure of our common stock and the ownership of Class B common stock by Ido Schoenberg and Roy Schoenberg (the Founders), which will have the effect of concentrating voting control with our founders for the foreseeable future. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we do not currently deem material may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer significantly. The following is a summary of all the material risks known to us. Risks Related to Our Financial Position We have a history of losses, which we expect to continue, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant losses in each period since our inception. We incurred net losses of $212.6 million, $679.2 million and $272.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,965.9 million. These losses and accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we made to acquire new clients and develop our enterprise platform and software as a service. We intend to continue scaling our business to increase our client, patient, member and provider bases, broaden the scope of services we offer, invest in research and development and expand the applications of our technology through which consumers can access our services. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. In addition, we have undertaken and intend to continue to undertake cost-reduction efforts, such as headcount reductions and footprint optimization. These efforts may not provide the benefits that we expect, and we may be unable to recover the upfront costs associated with such efforts. We cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will be able to sustain or increase profitability. Our prior losses, combined with our expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders equity and working capital. 23 A significant portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of clients and we may be unable to retain our key clients. We rely on a limited number of clients for a substantial portion of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, our largest client, Elevance, accounted for 27%, 24% and 23% of our revenue, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, our top ten clients by revenue accounted for 58%, 51% and 47% of our total revenue, respectively. The loss of any of our key clients, or a failure of some of them to renew or expand their subscriptions, could have a significant impact on our revenue. Our clients may choose to cancel, not renew or otherwise limit their use of our offerings for a variety of reasons described in this Risk Factors section, including mergers and acquisitions involving our clients. Further, as we rely on our reputation and recommendations from key clients in order to promote our solution to potential new clients, the loss of any of our key clients could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new clients. We may need additional capital to support the growth of our business, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception, and we intend to continue scaling our business to increase our client, patient, member and provider bases, broaden the scope of services we offer, invest in research and development and expand the applications of our technology through which consumers can access our services. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, our net cash used in operating activities was $127.3 million, $148.3 million and $192.3 million respectively. As of December 31, 2024, we had $228.3 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which are held for working capital purposes. Our future capital requirements may be significantly different from our current estimates and will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new or enhanced services, the continuing market acceptance of digital care and the effectiveness of our cost-reduction efforts. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings or collaborative arrangements to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could require us to dedicate a substantial amount of cash for interest payments and involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital, operate our business and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, during times of economic instability, it has been difficult for many companies to obtain financing in the public markets or to obtain debt financing, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at times that we require such financing, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred and may in the future incur non-cash impairment charges. If in the future there is a sustained decline in our stock price, adverse changes in our projected cash flows, and/or changes in key assumptions, including but not limited to lower revenue growth, lower operating margin, and/or a lower terminal growth rate, we may be required conduct additional impairment testing of our other intangibles and/or long-lived assets and subsequently record additional non-cash impairment charge. Such a non-cash charge would likely have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets in the reporting period of the charge. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the sub-heading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Intangible Assets. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The digital care market is still developing and volatile and may develop slower than we expect and be subject to negative publicity. The digital care market is relatively new and unproven, and it is uncertain whether it will achieve and sustain high levels of demand, consumer acceptance and market adoption. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of our clients members or patients to use, and to increase the frequency and extent of their utilization of, our services, as well as on our ability to demonstrate the value of digital care to employers, health plans, government agencies and other purchasers of healthcare for beneficiaries. Negative publicity concerning our services or the digital care market as a whole could limit market acceptance of our services. For example, there has been and continue to be substantial media 24 coverage in the U.S. surrounding mental health and virtual health services, including the virtual prescription of mental health prescription drugs. Such negative publicity could adversely affect the digital care market and our business. Similarly, individual and healthcare industry concerns or negative publicity regarding patient confidentiality and privacy in the context of digital care could limit market acceptance of our healthcare services. If our clients, or their members or patients, do not perceive the benefits of our services, or if our services are not competitive, then our market may not develop at all, or it may develop more slowly than we expect. If any of these events occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Rapid technological change in our industry presents us with significant risks and challenges. The digital care market is characterized by rapid technological change, changing consumer requirements, short product lifecycles and evolving industry standards. Our success will depend on our ability to enhance our solution with next-generation technologies and to develop or to acquire and market new services to access new consumer populations. There is no guarantee that we will possess the resources, either financial or personnel, for the research, design and development of new applications or services, or that we will be able to utilize these resources successfully and avoid technological or market obsolescence. Further, there can be no assurance that technological advances by one or more of our competitors or future competitors will not result in our present or future software-based products and services becoming uncompetitive or obsolete. We operate in a competitive industry and may not able to compete effectively. The digital care market is competitive and we expect it to attract increased competition, which could make it difficult for us to succeed. We currently face competition in the digital care delivery market from a range of companies, including specialized software and solution providers that offer similar solutions, often at substantially lower prices, and that are continuing to develop additional products and becoming more sophisticated and effective. Our competitors in the digital care delivery market range from traditional digital care players such as Teladoc, Included Health and MDLive; video communications players such as Zoom or Microsoft Teams; physician networks or tools such as Doximity and Caregility; technology companies such as Amazon; and EHR players (which are also partners) such as Epic, Cerner, Allscripts and athenahealth. Competition could result in continued pricing pressures, which is likely to lead to price declines in certain product segments, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability and market share. Some of our competitors may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources than we do. Further, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements and may have the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to increase the availability of their solutions in the marketplace. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, a larger client base, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise, greater financial resources and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our competitors could also be better positioned to serve certain segments of the digital care market, which could create additional price pressure. In addition, many healthcare provider organizations are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours could become more intense, and the importance of establishing and maintaining relationships with key industry participants could increase. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. In light of these factors, even if our solution is more effective than those of our competitors, current or potential clients may accept competitive solutions in lieu of purchasing our solution. If we are unable to successfully compete in the digital care market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Healthcare reform legislation and other changes in the healthcare industry and in healthcare spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is dependent on the healthcare industry and could be affected by changes in healthcare spending, reimbursement and policy. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, regulatory and other influences. There is significant interest in promoting healthcare reforms, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures within the United States and the governments of other countries will continue to consider changes to existing healthcare legislation. For example, there have been and continue to be a number of initiatives at the United States federal and state levels that seek to reduce 25 healthcare costs, including the Budget Control Act (which, subject to certain sequestration periods, imposed 2% reductions in Medicare payments to providers per fiscal year) and the American Taxpayer Relief Act (which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years). Further, healthcare reform legislation that affect Medicare spending and funding, such as Medicare payment for performance initiatives for physicians under the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, could materially adversely affect client demand and affordability for our products and, accordingly, the results of our financial operations. In addition, payers such as government and private insurance providers are also increasingly seeking to reduce healthcare costs, as demonstrated by the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, which could reduce demand and prices for our services. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments and other third party payers will pay for healthcare products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If growth in the number of individuals covered by our health systems and health plans decreases, or the number of products or services that we are able to sell to our clients decreases due to legal, economic or business developments, our revenue will likely decrease. We currently generate most of our revenues from clients who purchase access to our enterprise platform. These contracts generally have stated initial terms of three years. Most of our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solution after the initial term expires. In addition, our clients may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these clients. Our future results of operations depend, in part, on our ability to expand into new clinical specialties and across care settings and use cases. If our clients fail to renew their contracts, renew their contracts upon less favorable terms or at lower fee levels or fail to purchase new products and services from us, our revenue may decline, or our future revenue growth may be constrained. Additional factors that could affect our ability to sell products and services include, but are not limited to: failure of our clients to be successful offering our products; changes in the nature or operations of our clients; price, performance and functionality of our solution; our development and introduction of additional or improved solutions and our clients acceptance of such solutions; availability, price, performance and functionality of competing solutions; our ability to develop and sell complementary products and services; stability, performance and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services; changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends; and the business environment of our clients and, in particular, headcount reductions by our clients. In addition, our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to call upon our current clients to provide positive references to new, potential clients. Given our limited number of long-term clients, the loss or dissatisfaction of any client could substantially harm our brand and reputation, inhibit widespread adoption of our solution and impair our ability to attract new clients and maintain existing clients. Any of these consequences could lower retention rate and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in the prevalence of employer-sponsored healthcare or the emergence of new technologies may render our digital care solution obsolete or require us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. The U.S. healthcare industry is massive, with a number of large market participants with conflicting agendas, and it is subject to significant government regulation and is currently undergoing significant change. Changes in our industry, for example, such as the emergence of new technologies as more competitors enter our market, could result in our digital care solution being less desirable or relevant. 26 Some experts have predicted that future healthcare reform will encourage employer-sponsored health insurance to become significantly less prevalent as employees migrate to obtaining their own insurance over the state-sponsored insurance marketplaces. Were this to occur, there is no guarantee that we would be able to compensate for the loss in revenue from employers by increasing sales of our solution to health insurance companies or to individuals or government agencies. In such a case, our results of operations would be adversely affected. If healthcare benefits trends shift or entirely new technologies are developed that replace existing solutions, our existing or future solutions could be rendered obsolete and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience difficulties with industry standards, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new applications and enhancements. Our new digital care offerings may not be adopted by our clients and we may fail to innovate and develop new software offerings that are adopted by our clients. To date, we have historically derived a substantial majority of our revenue from clients who pay for access to our enterprise platform and software as a service. Our long-term results of operations and continued growth will depend on our ability to successfully develop and market new digital care products and services that our clients want and are willing to purchase. In addition, we have invested significant resources in research and development to enhance our existing solution and introduce new high-quality digital care products and services, such as our Amwell Converge platform, and intend to continue to invest resources to enhance our existing solution and introduce new products and services. If existing clients are not willing to make additional payments for such new applications, or if new clients and their members and patients do not value such new applications, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to predict user preferences or if our industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our solution and services on a timely basis, we may lose clients. Our results of operations would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our clients, appropriately timed with market opportunity or effectively brought to market. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread adoption of our solution and attracting new clients. Our brand promotion activities may not generate client awareness or increase revenue, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in doing so, we may fail to attract or retain clients necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad client adoption of our solution. If AMG providers or experts or American Well Corporation experts are characterized as employees, AMG and American Well Corporation, as applicable, would be subject to employment and withholding liabilities. AMG and American Well Corporation structure their relationships with the majority of their respective providers and experts in a manner that we believe results in an independent contractor relationship, not an employee relationship. An independent contractor is generally distinguished from an employee by his or her degree of autonomy and independence in providing services. A high degree of autonomy and independence is generally indicative of a contractor relationship, while a high degree of control is generally indicative of an employment relationship. Although we believe that AMG providers and experts and American Well Corporation experts are properly characterized as independent contractors, tax or other regulatory authorities may in the future challenge our characterization of these relationships. If such regulatory authorities or state, federal or foreign courts were to determine that AMG providers or experts or American Well Corporation experts are employees, and not independent contractors, AMG or American Well Corporation, as applicable, would be required to withhold income taxes, to withhold and pay social security, Medicare and similar taxes and to pay unemployment and other related payroll taxes. AMG or American Well Corporation, as applicable, would also be liable for unpaid past taxes and subject to penalties. As a result, any determination that AMG providers or experts and/or American Well experts are employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by health epidemics, pandemics and other public health emergencies. Health epidemics, pandemics and other public health emergencies could cause disruptions and severely impact our business, including, but not limited to: negatively impacting our clients business, as well as loss of employment, resulting in difficulty collecting accounts receivable and/or fewer fees generated; negatively impacting our ability to facilitate the provision of our services to health system, health plan or innovator clients due to unpredictable demand; creating regulatory 27 uncertainty if certain restrictions on reimbursement or the practice of medicine across state lines are reintroduced in the future; and harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such health epidemics, pandemics and other public health emergencies could heighten many of the other risks identified elsewhere in this Risk Factors section. Our senior management team and workforce are crucial for executing our business strategy. Our success and execution of our business strategy depends heavily upon our ability to attract and retain key members of senior management and a skilled workforce generally. The members of senior management are at-will employees and therefore they may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. Changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives could disrupt our business and involve significant time and costs and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our business would also be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our executives and senior management. While we have succession plans in place and we have employment arrangements with a limited number of key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these or suitable successor executives will continue to be available to us. In addition to our management team, our products and services and our operations require a large number of highly skilled employees who we must successfully engage and inspire to be open to change, to innovate and to maintain member- and client-focus when delivering our services. In addition, as we expand internationally, we face the challenge of recruiting, integrating, educating, managing, retaining and developing a more culturally varied workforce. Competition is intense for qualified professionals. We may not be successful in continuing to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled personnel with appropriate qualifications. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working in the healthcare market is limited overall. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology industries, qualified personnel often consider the value of the stock options or other equity instruments they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain highly skilled personnel. Further, the requirement to expense stock options and other equity instruments may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option or equity awards that qualified personnel require to join or stay with our company. Failure to attract new personnel or failure to retain and motivate our current personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on our relationships with third parties, including our partner organizations and technology and content providers. Identifying partners, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to, or utilization of, our products and services. In addition, acquisitions of our partners by our competitors could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential clients, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our applications by potential clients. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our results of operations may suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased client use of our applications or increased revenue. Our digital care strategy depends on the ability of our affiliated medical group to maintain and expand its network of skilled qualified providers. If it is unable to do so, our future growth would be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Our success is dependent upon our affiliated medical group, AMG, and its continued ability to maintain a network of highly trained and qualified digital care providers. If AMG is unable to recruit and retain board-certified physicians and other healthcare professionals, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to grow and would adversely affect our results of operations. In any particular market, providers could demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less attractive service for our clients or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. The ability to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with providers also may be negatively impacted by other factors not associated with us, such as changes in Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement levels, state physician licensing laws and standard of care requirements, and other pressures on healthcare providers and consolidation activity 28 among hospitals, physician groups and healthcare providers. The failure of AMG to maintain or to secure new cost-effective provider contracts may result in a loss of or inability to grow our consumer base, higher costs, healthcare provider network disruptions, less attractive clinical services for our clients and/or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not grow at the rates we historically have achieved or at all, even if our key metrics may indicate growth. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our revenue from existing clients, to complete sales to potential future clients, to expand our client, patient and member bases, to develop new products and services and to expand internationally. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful in executing on these growth strategies or that, even if our key metrics would indicate future growth, we will continue to grow our revenue or to generate net income. Our ability to execute on our existing sales pipeline, create additional sales pipelines, and expand our client base depends on, among other things, the attractiveness of our services relative to those offered by our competitors, our ability to demonstrate the value of our existing and future services, and our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales and marketing leadership and support personnel. In addition, our existing clients may be slower to adopt our services than we currently anticipate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. We may be unable to successfully execute on our growth initiatives, business strategies or operating plans. We are continually executing a number of growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans designed to enhance our business. The anticipated benefits from these efforts are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Moreover, we may not be able to successfully complete these growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans and realize all of the benefits, including growth targets and cost savings, that we expect to achieve or it may be more costly to do so than we anticipate. A variety of risks could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits. These risks include, among others, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans, increased difficulty and cost in implementing these efforts, including difficulties in complying with new regulatory requirements and the incurrence of other unexpected costs associated with operating the business. Moreover, our continued implementation of these programs may disrupt our operations and performance. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize these benefits. If, for any reason, the benefits we realize are less than our estimates or the implementation of these growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans adversely affect our operations or cost more or take longer to effectuate than we expect, or if our assumptions prove inaccurate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to quickly scale our capabilities when needed. At times, we may be required to quickly scale our capabilities, such as in response to unexpected shifts in demand for digital care, to implement our solution satisfactorily with respect to both large and demanding clients, who currently constitute the substantial majority of our client base. Large clients often require specific features or functions unique to their consumer base, which, at a time of significant growth or during periods of high demand, may strain our implementation capacity and hinder our ability to successfully implement our solution to our clients in a timely manner. If we are unable to address the needs of our clients or consumers, or our clients or consumers are unsatisfied with the quality of our solution or services, they may not renew their contracts, seek to cancel or terminate their relationship with us or renew on less favorable terms, any of which could cause our annual net dollar retention rate to decrease. The estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth included in this Annual Report may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. The estimates and forecasts in this Annual Report relating to the size and expected growth of the digital care market may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results of operations, including our revenue, net loss and cash flows, has varied and may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our quarterly results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial 29 results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, the following: the addition or loss of large clients, including through acquisitions or consolidations of such clients; seasonal and other variations in the timing of the sales of our services; historically, a significantly higher proportion of our clients members and patients use our services during peak cold and flu season months, the future impact of seasonal viruses is unknown as there could be additional surges and demand on digital care visits; the timing of recognition of revenue, including possible delays in the recognition of revenue due to sometimes unpredictable implementation timelines; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; our ability to effectively manage the size and composition of our proprietary network of healthcare professionals relative to the level of demand for services from our clients members and patients; the timing and success of introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, clients or strategic partners; client renewal rates and the timing and terms of client renewals; the mix of products and services sold during a period; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired companies. Most of our revenue in any given quarter is derived from contracts entered into with our clients during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one quarter may not be fully reflected in our revenue for that quarter. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenue in future periods and the effect of significant downturns in sales of and market demand for our solution, and potential changes in our rate of renewals or renewal terms, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable term of the contract. Accordingly, the effect of changes in the industry impacting our business or changes we experience in our new sales may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations. Any fluctuation in our quarterly results may not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our business and could cause a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. We incur significant upfront costs in our client relationships, and if we are unable to maintain and grow these client relationships over time, we are likely to fail to recover these costs. Our business model depends heavily on achieving economies of scale because our initial upfront investment is costly and the associated revenue is recognized on a ratable basis. We devote significant resources to establish relationships with our clients and implement our solution and related services. This is particularly so in the case of large enterprises that, to date, have comprised a substantial majority of our client base. Accordingly, our results of operations will depend in substantial part on our ability to deliver a successful experience for clients, as well as their members and patients, and persuade our clients to maintain and grow their relationship with us over time. Additionally, as our business is growing significantly, our client acquisition costs could outpace our build-up of recurring revenue, and we may be unable to reduce our total operating costs enough to achieve profitability, or if achieved, to maintain it. If we fail to achieve appropriate economies of scale or if we fail to manage or anticipate the evolution and in future periods, demand, of the access fee model, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable and requires considerable time and expense, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. The sales cycle for our solution from initial contact with a potential lead to contract execution and completion, varies widely by client, ranging from a few months to a year. Some of our clients undertake a significant and prolonged evaluation process, including to determine whether our services meet their unique healthcare needs, which frequently involves 30 evaluation of not only our solution but also an evaluation of those of our competitors, which has in the past resulted in extended sales cycles. Our sales efforts involve educating our clients about the use, technical capabilities and potential benefits of our solution. Moreover, our large enterprise clients often begin to deploy our solution on a limited basis, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these clients will deploy our solution widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. The implementation of large and complex contracts requires us to devote a sufficient amount of personnel, systems, equipment, technology and other resources as are necessary to ensure a timely and successful implementation. It is possible that in the future we may experience even longer sales cycles, more complex client needs, higher upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales as we continue to expand our direct sales force, expand into new territories and market additional software-based products and services. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront sales and implementation investments do not result in sufficient sales to justify our investments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic uncertainties or downturns in the general economy or the industries in which our clients operate could disproportionately affect the demand for our solution and negatively impact our results of operations. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced significant downturns during the last ten years, and market volatility and uncertainty remain widespread, making it potentially very difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. During challenging economic times, our clients may have difficulty gaining timely access to sufficient credit or obtaining credit on reasonable terms, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us and adversely affect our revenue. If that were to occur, our financial results could be harmed. Further, challenging economic conditions may impair the ability of our clients to pay for the software-based products and services they already have purchased from us and, as a result, our write-offs of accounts receivable could increase. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. If the condition of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsens, our business could be harmed. With respect to our international operations, we face political, legal and compliance, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that we do not face or that are more significant than in our domestic operations. With respect to our international operations, we face political, legal and compliance, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that we do not face or that are more significant than in our domestic operations. These risks vary widely by country and include varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands, government intervention and censorship, discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets and pricing constraints. Our international products need to meet country-specific client and member preferences as well as country-specific legal requirements, including those related to licensing, privacy, data storage, location, protection and security. We have offices in the United States, Ireland and Israel and clients in Israel and throughout Europe and Australia. Additionally, certain international geopolitical conflicts, such as between Russia and Ukraine and Israel-Hamas, may create additional risks for our business. For example, we have certain employees, including our CEO, as well as engineering contractors who are located in these regions. The conflicts in those regions and our exposure to it may heighten many other risks disclosed in this Risk Factors section, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Such risks include, but are not limited to, adverse macroeconomic conditions; increased exposure to cyber-attacks; risks to the contractors that we use in the region; constraints or disruption in the capital markets and our sources of liquidity; and a potential inability to service certain contractual obligations if our contractors in the region are otherwise unable to perform. Our international operations require us to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing languages, cultures, legal and regulatory schemes and time zones. Our international operations encounter labor laws, customs and employee relationships that can be difficult, less flexible than in our domestic operations and expensive to modify or terminate. In some countries we are required to, or choose to, operate with local business partners, which requires us to manage our partner relationships and may reduce our operational flexibility and ability to quickly respond to business challenges. 31 Our international operations are subject to particular risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: the need to localize and adapt our solution for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including cross-border compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, healthcare, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; data privacy laws that require that client data be stored and processed in a designated territory; new and different sources of competition and laws and business practices favoring local competitors; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; changes to economic sanctions laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from international subsidiaries; adverse tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions, which could make our solution more expensive or increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues; difficulties in staffing, managing and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries and increased financial accounting and reporting requirements and complexities; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed operations; and political unrest, war, terrorism or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so without incurring unexpected costs. If we are not able to manage the risks related to our international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Information Technology We rely on data center providers, Internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, third-party computer hardware and software, other third parties and our own systems for providing services to our clients and consumers, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with clients, adversely affecting our brand and our business. We serve all of our U.S. based clients and consumers from two geographically dispersed data centers. While we control and have access to our servers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our data center operators is acquired, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Problems faced by our third-party data center locations with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their clients, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our clients and consumers. Our third-party data center operators could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. In 32 addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy faced by our third-party data centers operators or any of the service providers with whom we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, a rapid expansion of our business could affect the service levels at our data centers or cause such data centers and systems to fail. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any disruptions or other performance problems with our solution could adversely affect our reputation and may damage our clients and consumers stored files or result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Interruptions in our services may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue refunds to clients for prepaid and unused subscriptions, as well as penalties related to service level credits and uptime, subject us to potential liability or adversely affect client renewal rates. In addition, our ability to deliver our Internet-based services depends on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, bandwidth capacity and security. Our services are designed to operate without interruption in accordance with our service level commitments. However, we have experienced, including during the period immediately following the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, and expect that we may experience in the future, interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of our systems, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with clients and consumers. To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against: damage from fire, power loss, natural disasters and other force majeure events outside our control; communications failures; software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; security breaches, computer viruses, hacking, denial-of-service attacks and similar disruptive problems; and other potential interruptions. We also rely on computer hardware purchased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our services. These licenses are generally commercially available on varying terms. However, it is possible that this hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from third parties, is identified, obtained and integrated. We exercise limited control over third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with technology and information services they provide. Interruptions in our network access and services may in connection with third-party technology and information services reduce our revenue, cause us to issue refunds to clients, subject us to potential liability or adversely affect client renewal rates. Although we maintain a security and privacy damages insurance policy, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur related to the services provided by our third-party vendors. In addition, we may not be able to continue to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost, if at all. Our ability to rely on these services of third-party vendors could be impaired as a result of the failure of such providers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual covenants, or as a result of events affecting such providers, such as power loss, telecommunication failures, software or hardware errors, computer viruses, cyber incidents and similar disruptive problems, fire, flood and natural disasters. Any such failure or event could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and damage our reputation. This could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. If our or our vendors security measures fail or are breached and unauthorized access to a clients data or information systems is obtained, our services may be perceived as insecure, we may incur significant liabilities, our reputation may be harmed, and we could lose sales and clients. Our services involve the storage and transmission of clients and our consumers proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, including valuable intellectual property and personal information of employees, clients, consumers and others, as well as the protected health information (PHI), of our consumers. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of this information. Because of the extreme sensitivity of the 33 information we store and transmit, the security features of our and our third-party vendors computer, network, and communications systems infrastructure are critical to the success of our business. A breach or failure of our or our third-party vendors network, hosted service providers or vendor systems could result from a variety of circumstances and events, including third-party action, employee negligence or error, malfeasance, computer viruses, ransomware, cyber-attacks by computer hackers such as denial-of-service and phishing attacks, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software and databases, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, or catastrophic events. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operating large-scale and complex automated attacks, including on companies within the healthcare industry. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to further enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. If our or our third-party vendors security measures fail or are breached, it could result in unauthorized persons accessing sensitive patient or member data (including PHI), a loss of or damage to our data, an inability to access data sources, or process data or provide our services to our clients. Such failures or breaches of our or our third-party vendors security measures, or our or our third-party vendors inability to effectively resolve such failures or breaches in a timely manner, could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect client, patient, member or investor confidence in us, and reduce the demand for our services from existing and potential clients. In addition, we could face litigation, damages for contract breach, monetary penalties, or regulatory actions for violation of applicable laws or regulations, and incur significant costs for remedial measures to prevent future occurrences and mitigate past violations. Although we maintain insurance covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses, we may not carry insurance or maintain coverage sufficient to compensate for all liability and in any event, insurance coverage would not address the reputational damage that could result from a security incident. Additionally, we cannot be certain that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Data privacy is also subject to frequently changing laws, rules, regulations and standards in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Such initiatives around the country could increase the cost of developing, implementing or securing our servers and require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, adding to our IT and compliance costs. Our Board is briefed periodically on cybersecurity and risk management issues by our Chief Information Officer and General Counsel and we have implemented a number of processes to avoid cyber threats and to protect privacy. However, the processes we have implemented in connection with such initiatives may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, proprietary or sensitive data, including personal data. In addition, the competition for talent in the data privacy and cybersecurity space is intense, and we may be unable to hire, develop or retain suitable talent capable of adequately detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. Our failure to adhere to, or successfully implement processes in response to, changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Should an attacker gain access to our network, including by way of example, using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. Certain measures that could increase the security of our systems, such as data encryption (including data at rest encryption), heightened monitoring and logging, scanning for source code errors or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be deployed in a timely manner or be effective against an attack. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our information systems must be continually updated, patched and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities. The volume of new vulnerabilities has increased markedly, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. The ongoing conflict in Russia and the Ukraine may also result in heightened cybersecurity risk across our networks and platforms. In addition to remediating newly identified vulnerabilities, previously identified vulnerabilities must also be continuously addressed. Accordingly, we are at risk that cyber-attackers exploit these known vulnerabilities before they have been addressed. Due to the large number of systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors are issuing security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we continuously face the substantial risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. We are also dependent on third-party vendors to keep their systems patched and secure in order to protect our information systems and data. Any failure related to these activities and any breach of our information systems could result in significant liability and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial condition. 34 Our proprietary software may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to claims against us or divert application of our resources from other purposes. Our enterprise platform and software as a service provides our consumers and providers with the ability to, among other things, register for our services; complete, view and edit medical history; request a visit (either scheduled or on demand); and conduct a visit (via video or phone). Proprietary software development is time-consuming, expensive and complex, and may involve unforeseen difficulties. We encounter technical obstacles from time to time, and it is possible that we may discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary applications from operating properly. If our solution does not function reliably or fails to achieve client expectations in terms of performance, clients could assert liability claims against us or attempt to cancel their contracts with us. This could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract or maintain clients. Moreover, data services are complex and those we offer have in the past contained, and may in the future develop or contain, undetected defects or errors. Material performance problems, defects or errors in our existing or new software-based products and services may arise in the future and may result from interface of our solution with systems and data that we did not develop and the function of which is outside of our control or undetected in our testing. These defects and errors, and any failure by us to identify and address them, could result in loss of revenue or market share, diversion of development resources, harm to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Defects or errors may discourage existing or potential clients from purchasing our solution from us. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impracticable. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot implement our solution for clients or resolve any technical issues in a timely manner, we may lose clients and our reputation may be harmed. Our clients utilize a variety of data formats, applications and information systems and our solution must support our clients data formats and integrate with complex enterprise applications and information systems. If our enterprise platform and software as a service does not currently support a clients required data format or appropriately integrate with a clients applications and information systems, then we must configure our enterprise platform and software as a service to do so, which increases our expenses. Additionally, we do not control our clients implementation schedules. As a result, if our clients do not allocate the internal resources necessary to meet their implementation responsibilities or if we face unanticipated implementation difficulties, the implementation may be delayed. If the client implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, we could incur significant costs, clients could become dissatisfied and decide not to increase utilization of our solution or not to implement our solution beyond an initial term commitment or, in some cases, revenue recognition could be delayed. In addition, competitors with more efficient operating models with lower implementation costs could jeopardize our client relationships. Our clients depend on our support services to resolve any technical issues relating to our solution and services, and we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in member demand for support services, particularly as we increase the size of our client, member and patient bases. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors. It is difficult to predict member demand for technical support services, and if member demand increases significantly, we may be unable to provide satisfactory support services to our consumers. Further, if we are unable to address consumers needs in a timely fashion or further develop and enhance our solution, or if a client or member is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or with the technical support services rendered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation or be required to issue credits or refunds for amounts related to unused services, and our profitability may be impaired and clients dissatisfaction with our solution could damage our ability to expand the number of software-based products and services purchased by such clients. These clients may not renew their contracts, seek to terminate their relationship with us or renew on less favorable terms. Moreover, negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our reputation or ability to compete for new business with current and prospective clients. If any of these were to occur, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to claims for technology integration problems and warranties. Our proprietary third party technology solutions, including integration with EHR providers, like Cerner and Epic, or mobile applications utilizing our SDK, are very complex and may contain design, coding or other errors, especially when first introduced. It is possible that providers may discover errors in our software after their introduction to the market. Our software is used not just for telehealth itself but also handling insurance eligibility, medical record access, payment. claims 35 submission, artificial intelligence based chat with patients and training patients on coping with behavioral health issues. Therefore, users of our software are less tolerant of errors than the market for other types of technologies generally. Our client agreements typically include warranties by the Company confirming the operation of our solution in accordance with specifications. If a software solution fails to meet these warranties or leads to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, it could constitute a material breach under the client agreement, allowing the client to terminate the agreement and possibly obtain a refund or damages or both; require us to incur additional expense in order to make the solution meet these criteria; or subject us to claims or litigation by our clients or clinicians or directly by the patient. Additionally, such failures could damage our reputation and could negatively affect future sales. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any particular claim that has been brought or that may be brought in the future, that such coverage will prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims brought against us, if uninsured or under-insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Any failure to protect, enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our technology and our brand. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our patent portfolio as well as other intellectual property rights. These laws, procedures and agreements provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, diluted or misappropriated. We attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring our employees, consultants and certain of our contractors to execute confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. The assignment of intellectual property rights under these agreements may not be self-executing or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. In addition, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical know-how or other trade secrets by the parties to these agreements despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures is difficult and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary technologies will be effective. Additionally, if a competitor lawfully obtains or independently develops the technology we maintain as a trade secret, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using that technology or information to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technologies, third parties may gain access to our proprietary information. They may also develop and market solutions similar to ours or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our solutions, and policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult and may not be effective. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we use open-source software in connection with our proprietary software and expect to continue to use open-source software in the future. Some open-source licenses require licensors to provide source code to licensees upon request, or prohibit licensors from charging a fee to licensees. While we try to insulate our proprietary code from the effects of such open-source license provisions, we cannot guarantee we will be successful. Accordingly, we may face claims from others claiming ownership of, or seeking to enforce the license terms applicable to such open-source software, including by demanding release of the open-source software, derivative works or our proprietary source code that was developed or distributed with such software. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our software, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if the license terms for the open-source code change, we may be forced to re-engineer our software or incur additional costs. We cannot assure you that we have not incorporated open-source software into our proprietary software in a manner that may subject our proprietary software to an open-source license that requires disclosure, to clients or the public, of the source code to such proprietary software. Any such disclosure would have a negative effect on our business and the value of our proprietary software. 36 Third parties may challenge the validity of our patents and trademarks, or oppose our patent and trademark applications. We may not be able to obtain and enforce additional patents to protect our proprietary rights from use by potential competitors. Companies with other patents could require us to stop using or pay to use required technology. Our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection through patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contracts in the United States and other countries with respect to our software and technology. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to erode, negate or preempt any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business. We rely on our trademarks, trade name and brand names to distinguish our products and services from the products and services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand products or services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. We have applied for, and intend to continue to apply for, patents relating to our software and technology. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, patents issued to us have been found to be invalid in the past, and it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully and found to be invalid or unenforceable in the future. In that event, any competitive advantage that such patents might provide would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain patent coverage, our technology could become subject to competition from the sale of similar competing products. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. If these developments were to occur, we could face increased competition. In addition, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patents on our software and technology in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. From time to time, patents issued or licensed to us relating to our software and technology may be infringed by the products or processes of others. For example, we are aware of third parties that we believe are infringing certain of our owned patents related to our software and technology. The cost of enforcing patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. Efforts to defend our intellectual property rights could incur significant costs and may or may not be resolved in our favor. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Regardless of the outcome, the cost and distraction associated with any such enforcement efforts could harm our business. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another partys intellectual property rights. In the future, we could become a party to additional, patent litigation and other infringement proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other infringement proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our would-be competitors may sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the Internet and technology industries are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights, and our competitors and other third parties may hold patents or have pending patent applications, which could be related to our business. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties, which we refer to as non-practicing entities, whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. Regardless of the merits of any intellectual property litigation, we may be required to expend significant management time and financial resources on the defense of such claims, and any adverse outcome of any such claim or the above referenced review could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We expect that we may receive in the future notices that claim we or our clients using our solution have misappropriated, misused or otherwise infringed other parties intellectual property rights, particularly as the number of competitors in our market grows and the functionality of applications amongst competitors overlaps. Any future, litigation, whether or not successful, could be 37 extremely costly to defend, divert our managements time, attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other companies in our field, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of a former employer or other third parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. In addition, in most instances, we have agreed to indemnify our clients against certain third-party claims, which may include claims that our solution infringes the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant disputes between us and our clients as to the applicability or scope of our indemnification obligations to them. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we may become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: cease offering or using technologies that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages; obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or redesign technology to avoid infringement. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us or any obligation to indemnify our clients for such claims, such payments or costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Litigation and Liability We may become subject to medical liability claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and may require us to pay significant damages if not covered by insurance. Our business entails the risk of medical liability claims against AMG providers and us. Although we and AMG carry insurance covering medical malpractice claims in amounts that we believe are appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business, successful medical liability claims could result in substantial damage awards that exceed the limits of our and AMGs insurance coverage. Recently, the provision of mental health services virtually has attracted widespread attention, and several other providers have received regulatory and litigation focus for inappropriate prescriptions of psychiatric medication. While we have not received such focus, any future focus on us could increase claims against us. AMG carries professional liability insurance for itself and each of its healthcare professionals, and we separately carry a professional liability insurance policy, which covers medical malpractice claims and covers our existing subsidiaries. In addition, professional liability insurance is expensive and insurance premiums may increase significantly in the future, particularly as we expand our services. As a result, adequate professional liability insurance may not be available to AMG providers or to us in the future at acceptable costs or at all. Any claims made against us that are not fully covered by insurance could be costly to defend against, result in substantial damage awards against us and divert the attention of our management and our affiliated medical group from our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any claims may adversely affect our business or reputation. We could experience losses or liability not covered by insurance. Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the provision of digital care and access to remote, virtual healthcare. If clients or individuals assert liability claims against us, any ensuing litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us, divert managements attention from operations, and decrease market acceptance of our solution. We attempt to limit our liability to clients by contract; however, the limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Additionally, we may be subject to claims that are not explicitly covered by contract. We also maintain general liability coverage; however, this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms, may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims 38 against us, and may include larger self-insured retentions or exclusions for certain products. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful claim not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We may become subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings, payer audits, investigations, and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes or employment claims made by our current or former associates. Litigation and audits may result in substantial costs and may divert managements attention and resources, which may substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance may not cover such claims, may not provide sufficient payments to cover all of the costs to resolve one or more such claims and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our earnings and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, which could reduce the market price of our stock. Risks Related to Taxation Recent changes in U.S. tax laws could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (the IRA) was signed into law, which includes implementation of a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the CAMT), among other provisions. The CAMT imposes a minimum tax on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) for applicable corporations with average annual AFSI over a three-year period in excess of $1 billion. Although we currently do not believe that we are or are likely to be in the near future subject to the CAMT and thus do not believe that the CAMT will impact our tax results in the near future, there are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of the CAMT, and it is possible that future growth in our business and AFSI and/or any future guidance with respect to the interpretation and application of the CAMT could result in the CAMT having a material effect on our liability for corporate taxes and our consolidated effective tax rate. We may not be permitted to file as a consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax and certain state tax purposes. Under Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), we are generally permitted to elect to file a consolidated tax return for U.S. federal income tax purposes with any corporations in which we own at least 80%, by vote and value, of the corporations outstanding stock (other than preferred stock meeting certain requirements). Filing a consolidated tax return with our subsidiaries as a consolidated group has certain U.S. federal income tax advantages, including permitting the consolidated group to share certain tax attributes such as net operating losses realized by one or more members of the group, the nonrecognition of income on inter-group dividends, and the ability to defer the recognition of gains on certain intercompany transactions. In addition, similar rules apply in certain states, which permit a corporate groups which meet certain requirements to file state income tax returns on a unitary or similar basis. The ownership of a corporations stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes is generally based on the substance of a transaction, rather than the ownership of legal title, based on a determination as to which entity has the benefits and burdens of the ownership of a corporations stock. Because we retain the economic ownership in and control over shares of the PCs, even though we have transferred legal title to the shares of the PCs to Dr. Cynthia Horner, with respect to AMG entities, in order to comply with the laws of the various states in which the PCs were formed and operate, we believe that we are the beneficial owners of the stock of the PCs for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes and thus are entitled to include the PCs in our U.S. federal consolidated income tax return and file a unitary or similar basis in certain states. For further discussion of this structure, see Item 1. BusinessPhysicians and Healthcare Professionals. However, there is no case law or other binding administrative guidance that directly addresses our facts, and it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) or a state taxing authority could take the position that we are not the beneficial owner of the stock of the PCs and thus are not entitled to include the PCs in our U.S. federal consolidated income tax return or state unitary or similar tax return, as applicable. There can be no assurance that the IRS or a state taxing authority will not take this position, or that such position would not be sustained if we were to challenge any such position in an administrative appeal or in a court. If we were not treated as the beneficial owner of the stock of the PCs, and were not entitled to include the PCs in our U.S. federal consolidated income tax return or a state unitary or similar tax return, this could have a material adverse effect on our cash position, tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition. 39 Certain U.S. state and local tax authorities may assert that we have a nexus with such states or localities and may seek to impose state and local income taxes on our income allocated to such state and localities. We file state and local income tax returns in jurisdictions in which we believe we are required to do so. There is a risk that certain state tax authorities where we do not currently file a state income tax return could assert that we are liable for state and local income taxes based upon income or gross receipts allocable to such states or localities. States and localities are becoming increasingly aggressive in asserting nexus for state and local income tax purposes. We could be subject to additional state and local income taxation, including penalties and interest attributable to prior periods, if a state or local tax authority in a state or locality where we do not currently file an income tax return successfully asserts that our activities give rise to nexus for state income tax purposes. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest may adversely affect our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use or similar taxes for digital care services which could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales and use and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly from state to state. For 2024, we filed sales and use tax in 47 states. With respect to the remaining states in which we do not collect sales and use or similar taxes, although some of these states consider software-as-a-service to be exempt from sales and use tax or the state does not charge sales and use tax, one or more of the remaining states may assert that we had economic nexus with such state and were required to collect such taxes with respect to past or future services, which could result in tax assessments and penalties and interest. The assertion of such taxes against us for past services, or any requirement that we collect sales taxes on its provision of future services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash tax liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and certain credit and capital loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. A Section 382 ownership change generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $986.0 million of federal NOL carryforwards, $45.7 million of tax effected state NOL carryforwards, $12.9 million and $3.0 of federal and state research and development credit carryforwards, respectively. The federal NOL carryforwards for years before 2018 begin to expire in 2026, the state NOL carryforwards began to expire in 2022 and federal research and development credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2027. Federal NOL carryforwards totaling $757.4 million generated in 2018 and after do not expire and can be carried forward indefinitely. Based on our analysis of changes in the ownership of our stock through December 31, 2024, we do not believe that any such changes prior to such date resulted in significant limitations under Section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize NOL and credit carryforwards generated prior to that date. However, changes in the ownership of our stock after December 31, 2024, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code after such date, which could significantly limit our ability to utilize our existing and future NOL and credit carryforwards arising at any time prior to such ownership change. In addition, certain of our NOLs for years before 2019 may be subject to a separate set of limitations applicable to losses from separate return years, which may limit our ability to use such losses against the income of our consolidated group. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets attributable to our NOL and our research and development credit carryforwards. Risks Related to Strategic Initiatives We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and we may have difficulty integrating any such acquisitions successfully or realizing the anticipated benefits therefrom. We intend to seek to acquire or invest in businesses, software-based products and services or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our solution, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities due to, among other things, the intense competition for these transactions. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions or investments, whether or not they are consummated. Even if we are successful in identifying suitable acquisitions or investments, we may be unable to complete them due to, among other things, an inability to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all, any regulatory approvals required to complete proposed acquisitions and other strategic transactions. 40 If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services in a profitable manner; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the clients of the acquired business onto our enterprise platform and software as a service and contract terms, including disparities in the revenue, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and clients as a result of the acquisition; the potential loss of key employees; use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which generally must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our results of operations based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing business. To pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions, we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition to committing capital to complete the acquisitions, substantial capital may be required to operate the acquired businesses following their acquisition. These acquisitions may result in significant financial losses if the intended objectives of the transactions are not achieved. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships with third-parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable solutions or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, we may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, partnerships or other arrangements to develop products and to pursue new markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenues and could be terminated prior to developing any products. Additionally, we may not own, or may jointly own with a third party, the intellectual property rights in products and other works developed under our collaborations, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships. Additionally, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our future collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. It is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations or the 41 ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with any future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest, and they may breach their obligations to us. In addition, we may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that any future collaborators devote to our or their future products. Disputes between us and our collaborators may result in litigation or arbitration which would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements will be contractual in nature and will generally be terminable under the terms of the applicable agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to have rights to the products relating to such transaction or arrangement or may need to purchase such rights at a premium. We are currently party to, and may enter into future, in-bound intellectual property license agreements. We may not be able to fully protect the intellectual property rights licensed to us or maintain those licenses. Our licensors may retain the right to prosecute and defend the intellectual property rights licensed to us, in which case we would depend on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection for the licensed intellectual property. These licensors may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. In addition, such licenses may only provide us with non-exclusive rights, which could allow other third parties, including our competitors, to utilize the licensed intellectual property rights. Further, our in-bound license agreements may impose various diligence, commercialization, royalty or other obligations on us. Our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Risks Related to Government Regulation Our failure to comply with the anti-corruption, trade compliance and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the United States and applicable international jurisdictions could materially adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. We must comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations imposed by governments around the world with jurisdiction over our operations, which may include the FCPA in the United States,as well as the laws of the countries where we do business. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. Where they apply, the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the UK Bribery Act) prohibit us and our officers, directors, employees and business partners acting on our behalf, including joint venture partners and agents, from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to public officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. As part of our business, we may deal with governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered public officials for purposes of the FCPA. We also are subject to the jurisdiction of various governments and regulatory agencies around the world, which may bring our personnel and agents into contact with public officials responsible for issuing or renewing permits, licenses or approvals or for enforcing other governmental regulations. In addition, some of the international locations in which we may operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. Our business also must be conducted in compliance with applicable export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. government, the governments of other countries in which we will operate or conduct business and various multilateral organizations. Such laws and regulations include, without limitation, those administered and enforced by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the United Nations Security Council and other relevant sanctions authorities. Our provision of services to persons located outside the United States may be subject to certain regulatory prohibitions, restrictions or other requirements, including certain licensing or reporting requirements. Our provision of services outside of the United States exposes us to the risk of violating, or being accused of violating, anti-corruption, exports controls and trade compliance and economic sanctions laws and regulations. Our failure to successfully comply with these laws and regulations may expose us to reputational harm as well as significant sanctions, including criminal fines, imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions and suspension or debarment from government contracts, as well as other remedial measures. Investigations of alleged violations can be expensive and disruptive. Though we have implemented an anti-corruption policy as well as formal training and monitoring programs, we cannot assure compliance by our employees or representatives for which we may be held responsible, and any such violation could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Our business could be adversely affected by legal challenges to our business model or by actions restricting our ability to provide the full range of our services in certain jurisdictions. Our ability to conduct digital care services in a particular jurisdiction is directly dependent upon the applicable laws governing remote care, the practice of medicine and healthcare delivery in general in such location, which are subject to changing political, regulatory and other influences. With respect to digital care services, in the past, state medical boards have established new rules or interpreted existing rules in a manner that has limited or restricted our ability to conduct our business as it was conducted in other states. Some of these actions have resulted in the suspension or modification of our digital care operations in certain states. However, the extent to which a jurisdiction considers particular actions or relationships to comply with the applicable standard of care is subject to change and to evolving interpretations by (in the case of U.S. states) medical boards and state attorneys general, among others, each with broad discretion. Accordingly, we must monitor our compliance with law in every jurisdiction in which we operate, on an ongoing basis, and we cannot provide assurance that our activities and arrangements, if challenged, will be found to be in compliance with the law. Although the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the relaxation of certain Medicare, Medicaid and state licensure restrictions on the delivery of digital care services, it is uncertain how long the relaxed policies will remain in effect. However, although many of the executive orders have expired, several states have made permanent changes to their telehealth requirements, which in most cases will result in increased access to telehealth services. Most of the federal waivers have been extended through March 31, 2025. Additionally, it is possible that the laws and rules governing the practice of medicine and the practice of pharmacy, including remote care, in one or more jurisdictions may change in a manner deleterious to our business. For instance, a few states have imposed different, and, in some cases, additional, standards regarding the provision of services via digital care. Some states impose strict standards on using digital care to prescribe certain classes of controlled substances that can be commonly used to treat behavioral health disorders. The unpredictability of this regulatory landscape means that sudden changes in policy regarding standards of care and reimbursement are possible. If a successful legal challenge or an adverse change in the relevant laws were to occur, and we or our affiliated medical group were unable to adapt our business model accordingly, our operations in the affected jurisdictions would be disrupted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our relationships with affiliated professional entities, which we do not own, to provide physician services, and our business would be adversely affected if those relationships were disrupted. There is a risk that authorities in some jurisdictions may find that our contractual relationships with AMG and AMGs physicians providing digital care violate laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine or fee-splitting. These laws generally prohibit the practice of medicine by or sharing of professional fees with lay persons or entities and are intended to prevent unlicensed persons or entities from interfering with or inappropriately influencing the physicians professional judgment. Generally, we are prohibited from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians or engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. The extent to which each state considers particular actions or contractual relationships to constitute improper influence of professional judgment varies across the states and is subject to change and to evolving interpretations by state boards of medicine and state attorneys general, among others. As such, we must monitor our compliance with laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate on an ongoing basis and we cannot guarantee that subsequent interpretation of the corporate practice of medicine laws will not circumscribe our business operations. The enforcement of state corporate practice of medicine doctrines may result in the imposition of penalties on physicians themselves for aiding the corporate practice of medicine, which could discourage physicians from participating in our network of providers. The corporate practice of medicine prohibition exists in some form, by statute, regulation, board of medicine or attorney general guidance, or case law, in more than 40 states, all of which we operate in, though the broad variation between state application and enforcement of the doctrine makes an exact count difficult. Due to the prevalence of the corporate practice of medicine doctrine, including in the states where we predominantly conduct our business, we provide administrative and management services to entities associated with AMG pursuant to which those entities reserve exclusive control and responsibility for all aspects of the practice of medicine and the delivery of medical services. We do not own our AMG-affiliated entities. For example, AMG affiliated entities are owned by Dr. Cynthia Horner, our Chief Medical Officer. We in turn contract with these entities through business support agreements and direct transfer agreements for the provision of health care services and the receipt of fees. For further discussion of this structure, see Item 1. BusinessPhysicians and Healthcare Professionals. While we expect that these relationships will continue, we cannot guarantee that they will. A material change in our relationship with AMG, whether resulting from a dispute among the entities, a change in government regulation, or the loss of these affiliations, could impair our ability to provide services to our consumers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 In addition, the arrangement in which we have entered to comply with state corporate practice of medicine doctrines could subject us to additional scrutiny by federal and state regulatory bodies regarding federal and state fraud and abuse laws. Any scrutiny, investigation, or litigation with regard to our arrangement with AMG could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to restructure our operations and arrangements to comply with applicable laws or we are required to restructure at a significant cost, or if we were subject to penalties or other adverse action. Evolving government regulations may result in increased costs or adversely affect our results of operations. In a regulatory climate that is uncertain, our operations may be subject to direct and indirect adoption, expansion or reinterpretation of various laws and regulations. Compliance with these future laws and regulations may require us to change our practices at an undeterminable and possibly significant initial monetary and recurring expense. These additional monetary expenditures may increase future overhead, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have identified what we believe are the areas of government regulation that, if changed, would be costly to us. These include: rules governing the practice of medicine by physicians; laws relating to licensure requirements for physicians and other licensed health professionals; laws limiting the corporate practice of medicine and professional fee-splitting; laws governing the issuances of prescriptions in an online setting; cybersecurity and privacy laws; and laws and rules relating to the distinction between independent contractors and employees. There could be laws and regulations applicable to our business that we have not identified or that, if changed, may be costly to us, and we cannot predict all the ways in which implementation of such laws and regulations may affect us. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, even where we believe we are in compliance with all applicable laws, due to the uncertain regulatory environment, certain jurisdictions may determine that we are in violation of their laws. In the event that we must remedy such violations, we may be required to modify our services and products in a manner that undermines our solutions attractiveness to our clients, consumers or providers or experts, we may become subject to fines or other penalties or, if we determine that the requirements to operate in compliance in such jurisdictions are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate our operations in such places. In each case, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the introduction of new services may require us to comply with additional, yet undetermined, laws and regulations. Compliance may require obtaining appropriate licenses or certificates, increasing our security measures and expending additional resources to monitor developments in applicable rules and ensure compliance. The failure to adequately comply with these future laws and regulations may delay or possibly prevent some of our products or services from being offered to clients, or their members and patients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations or experience adverse publicity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The U.S. healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by federal and state governments. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services and collect reimbursement from governmental programs and private payers, our contractual relationships with AMG and its corresponding relationship with its providers, vendors and clients, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Of particular importance are: the federal physician self-referral law, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, that, unless one of the statutory or regulatory exceptions apply, prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician or a member of such physicians immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship (including an ownership interest or a compensation arrangement) with the entity, and prohibit the entity from billing Medicare or Medicaid for such designated health services; 44 the federal Anti-Kickback Statute that prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration for referring an individual, in return for ordering, leasing, purchasing or recommending or arranging for or to induce the referral of an individual or the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services covered, in whole or in part, by any federal healthcare program, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Remuneration has been interpreted broadly to be anything of value, and could include compensation, discounts, or free marketing services. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act; the criminal healthcare fraud provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their implementing regulations, which we collectively refer to as HIPAA, and related rules that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation; HIPAA, which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of PHI; the federal False Claims Act that imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that knowingly submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement in order to have a false claim paid, including qui tam or whistleblower suits; the federal Civil Monetary Law prohibits, among other things, the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiarys selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state healthcare program, unless an exception applies; reassignment of payment rules that prohibit certain types of billing and collection practices in connection with claims payable by the Medicare or Medicaid programs; similar state law provisions pertaining to Anti-Kickback, self-referral and false claims issues, some of which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payer, including commercial insurers or services paid out-of-pocket by patients; state laws that prohibit general business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine, controlling physicians medical decisions or engaging in some practices such as splitting fees with physicians; the Federal Trade Commission Act and federal and state consumer protection, advertisement and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that could potentially harm consumers; laws that regulate debt collection practices as applied to our debt collection practices; a provision of the Social Security Act that imposes criminal penalties on healthcare providers who fail to disclose or refund known overpayments; federal and state laws that prohibit providers from billing and receiving payment from Medicare and Medicaid for services unless the services are medically necessary, adequately and accurately documented, and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered; and federal and state laws and policies that require healthcare providers to maintain licensure, certification or accreditation to provide physician and other professional services, to enroll and participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to report certain changes in their operations to the agencies that administer these programs, as well as state insurance laws. Because of the breadth of these laws and the need to fit certain activities within one of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Achieving and sustaining compliance with these laws may prove costly. Failure to comply with these laws and other laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages, overpayment recoupment, loss of enrollment status and 45 exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our business or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us and negatively affect our business. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our managements attention from the operation of our business and result in adverse publicity. To enforce compliance with the federal laws, the U.S. Department of Justice and the OIG, have continued their scrutiny of healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Dealing with investigations can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert managements attention from the business. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, because of the potential for large monetary exposure under the federal False Claims Act, healthcare providers often resolve allegations without admissions of liability for significant and material amounts to avoid the uncertainty of treble damages that may be awarded in litigation proceedings. Such settlements often contain additional compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree, settlement agreement or corporate integrity agreement. Given the significant size of actual and potential settlements, it is expected that the government will continue to devote substantial resources to investigating healthcare providers compliance with the healthcare reimbursement rules and fraud and abuse laws. Our ability to conduct digital care services internationally is subject to the applicable laws governing remote care and the practice of medicine in such location, and the interpretation of these laws is evolving and varies significantly from country to county and are enforced by governmental, judicial and regulatory authorities with broad discretion. We cannot be certain that our interpretation of such laws and regulations are correct in how we structure our operations, our arrangements with physicians, services agreements and client arrangements. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. We cannot assure you that any new or changed healthcare laws, regulations or standards will not materially adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by judicial, law enforcement, regulatory or accreditation authorities will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. Our use and disclosure of personally identifiable information, including PHI, personal data, and other health information, is subject to state, federal and foreign privacy and security regulations, and our failure to comply with those regulations or to adequately secure the information we hold could result in significant liability or reputational harm and, in turn, a material adverse effect on our client base, member and patient bases and revenue. The privacy and security of personally identifiable information (PII) stored, maintained, received or transmitted electronically is a major issue in the United States and abroad. While we strive to comply with all applicable privacy and security laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, legal standards for privacy, including but not limited to unfairness and deception, as enforced by the FTC and state attorneys general, continue to evolve and any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Recently, there has been an increase in public awareness of privacy issues in the wake of revelations about the activities of various government agencies and in the number of private privacy-related lawsuits filed against companies. Any allegations about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personally identifiable information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business. For example, we send short message service, or SMS, text messages to potential end users who are eligible to use our service through certain clients and partners. While we obtain consent from or on behalf of these individuals to send text messages, federal or state regulatory authorities or private litigants may claim that the notices and disclosures we provide, form of consents we obtain or our SMS texting practices, are not adequate. These SMS texting campaigns are potential sources of risk for class action lawsuits and liability for our company. Numerous class-actions suits under federal and state laws have been filed in the past year against companies who conduct SMS texting programs, with many resulting in multi-million-dollar settlements to the plaintiffs. Any future such litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. 46 We also publish statements to our clients and clients that describe how we handle and protect personal information. If federal or state regulatory authorities or private litigants consider any portion of these statements to be untrue, we may be subject to claims of deceptive practices, which could lead to significant liabilities and consequences, including, without limitation, costs of responding to investigations, defending against litigation, settling claims and complying with regulatory or court orders. FTC and HHS enforcement actions and class-actions suits under federal and state laws have been filed in the past year against healthcare companies alleged to have failed to protect personal information. Any such litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Numerous foreign, federal and state laws and regulations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of personally identifiable health information, including (i) state privacy and confidentiality laws (including state laws requiring disclosure of breaches); (ii) HIPAA; and (iii) European and other foreign data protection laws. HIPAA establishes a set of basic national privacy and security standards for the protection of PHI, by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and certain healthcare providers, referred to as covered entities, and the business associates with whom such covered entities contract for services, which includes us. We are considered a business associate under HIPAA; AMG is considered a covered entity. HIPAA requires healthcare entities like us to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to PHI that is used or disclosed, including the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. HIPAA also implemented the use of standard transaction code sets and standard identifiers that covered entities must use when submitting or receiving certain electronic healthcare transactions, including activities associated with the billing and collection of healthcare claims. Violations of HIPAA may result in significant civil and criminal penalties. HIPAA also authorizes state attorneys general to file suit on behalf of their residents. While HIPAA does not create a private right of action allowing individuals to sue us in civil court for violations of HIPAA, its standards have been used as the basis for duty of care in state civil suits such as those for negligence or recklessness in the misuse or breach of PHI. Any such penalties or lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, HIPAA mandates that the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) conduct periodic compliance audits of HIPAA covered entities or business associates for compliance with the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards. It also tasks HHS with establishing a methodology whereby harmed individuals who were the victims of breaches of unsecured PHI may receive a percentage of the Civil Monetary Penalty fine paid by the violator. Further, the U.S. federal government and various states and governmental agencies have adopted or are considering adopting various laws, regulations, rules and standards regarding the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of sensitive and personal information. For example, the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act imposes restrictive requirements regulating the use and disclosure of health information and other personally identifiable information, and the California Privacy Rights Act increases privacy rights for California residents and imposes obligations on companies that process their personal information. Where state laws are more protective than HIPAA, we have to comply with the stricter provisions. Violations of these laws could result in significant fines and penalties, and, if these laws afford private rights of action to individuals, data breach litigation. There are numerous foreign laws, regulations, rules, standards and directives regarding privacy and the collection, storage, transmission, use, processing, disclosure and protection of PII and other personal or client data, the scope of which is continually evolving and subject to differing interpretations. If we provide digital care services outside the United States, we must comply with such laws, regulations and directives and we may be subject to significant consequences, including penalties and fines, for our failure to comply. For example, we must comply with GDPR and the applicable national data protection laws in the European Union and the UK GDPR in the United Kingdom. The GDPR and the UK GDPR may increasingly diverge from each other, exposing us to additional compliance obligations. Further, European data protection law also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EEA to the United States, which could affect our ability to efficiently process personal data from the EEA. These obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other requirements or our practices. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of their exceptions and safe harbors, it is possible that our business activities can be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform. For example, because of increasing concerns about health information privacy, through guidance documents, some government agencies are taking a 47 newly expansive view of the scope of information subject to the laws and regulations that they enforce. Federal, state and foreign enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Any such investigations, prosecutions, convictions or settlements could result in significant financial penalties, damage to our brand and reputation, and a loss of clients, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. State, federal and foreign privacy and security laws and regulations are constantly evolving and our failure to comply with such changes could result in significant liability or reputational harm and, in turn, a material adverse effect on our client base, patient and members bases and revenue. Various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data-retention and data-protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business, our brand or our reputation with clients. For example, some countries have adopted laws mandating that PII regarding clients in their country be maintained solely in their country. Having to maintain local data centers and redesign product, service and business operations to limit PII processing to within individual countries could increase our operating costs significantly. In addition, any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of our users content, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of users for the collection, use, retention or disclosure of such content is obtained, could increase our costs and require us to modify our services and features, possibly in a material manner, which we may be unable to complete and may limit our ability to store and process user data or develop new services and features. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. Because of the extreme sensitivity of the PII and PHI we store and transmit, the security features of our enterprise platform and software as a service are very important. If our security measures, some of which are managed by third parties, are breached or fail, unauthorized persons may be able to obtain access to sensitive client and member data, including PHI. As a result, our reputation could be severely damaged, adversely affecting client and member confidence. Consumers may curtail their use of or stop using our services or our client base could decrease, which would cause our business to suffer. In addition, we could face litigation, damages for contract breach, penalties and regulatory actions for violation of HIPAA and other applicable laws or regulations and significant costs for remediation, notification to individuals and for measures to prevent future occurrences. Any potential security breach could also result in increased costs associated with liability for stolen assets or information, repairing system damage that may have been caused by such breaches, incentives offered to clients or other business partners in an effort to maintain our business relationships after a breach and implementing measures to prevent future occurrences, including organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third-party experts and consultants. While we maintain insurance covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses, we may not carry insurance or maintain coverage sufficient to compensate for all liability and in any event, insurance coverage would not address the reputational damage that could result from a security incident. We outsource important aspects of the storage and transmission of client and member information, and thus rely on third parties to manage functions that have material cyber-security risks. We attempt to address these risks by requiring outsourcing subcontractors who handle client and member information to sign agreements contractually requiring those subcontractors to adequately safeguard PII and PHI to the same extent that applies to us and in some cases by requiring such outsourcing subcontractors to undergo third-party security examinations. In addition, we periodically hire third-party security experts to assess and test our security posture. However, we cannot assure you that these contractual measures and other safeguards will adequately protect us from the risks associated with the storage and transmission of client and consumers proprietary and protected health information. Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for any information security failure or cyber-attack attributed to our vendors as they relate to the information we share with them. In addition, because we do not control our vendors and our ability to monitor their data security is limited, we cannot ensure the security measures they take will be sufficient to protect confidential, proprietary, or sensitive data, including personal data. We are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third partys data 48 protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our information systems or data through the third party. Regardless of whether an actual or perceived cyber-attack is attributable to us or our vendors, such an incident could, among other things, result in improper disclosure of information, harm our reputation and brand, reduce the demand for our products and services, lead to loss of client confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, disrupt normal business operations or result in our systems or products and services being unavailable. In addition, it may require us to spend material resources to investigate or correct the breach and to prevent future security breaches and incidents, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, expose us to legal liabilities, including litigation, regulatory enforcement, indemnity obligations or damages for contract breach, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business and cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. Moreover, there could be public announcements regarding any such incidents and any steps we take to respond to or remediate such incidents, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these announcements to be negative, it could, among other things, have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful and any failure related to these activities could result in significant liability and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The multiple class structure of our common stock and the ownership of Class B common stock by our Founders will have the effect of concentrating voting control with our Founders for the foreseeable future, which will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters. For so long as any shares of our Class B common stock remain outstanding, our Founders will at all times hold at least 51% of the voting power of the voting stock of the Company. As a result, our Founders, as the holders of Class B common stock, collectively will continue to control a majority of the total combined voting power of our outstanding common stock and therefore be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including elections for directors, mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant transactions, so long as the Class B common stock remain outstanding. Even in the event that one of our Founders converts all or a portion of his shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock, the Class B common stock held by one or both or our Founders outstanding after such conversion would still be entitled to 51% of the voting power of the voting stock of the Company for so long as any Class B shares remain outstanding, subject to the conditions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, while the Founder who converted his shares into shares of Class A common stock, together with the Class C shares in the case of votes other than for directors, would dilute the relative voting power of existing holders of Class A common stock as his Class A common stock would be entitled to a pro rata portion of the 49% vote to which the Class A common shares, together with the Class C shares in the case of votes other than for directors, are entitled. In this circumstance, the Founders would be entitled to more than 51% of the voting power of our common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. For example, our Founders will be able to control the amendments of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws, increases to the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans or adoption of new equity incentive plans and approval of any merger or sale of assets for the foreseeable future. This control may materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Additionally, the Founders, the holders of our Class B common stock may cause us to make strategic decisions or pursue acquisitions that could involve risks to you or which may not be aligned with your interests. The holders of our Class B common stock will also be entitled to a separate vote in the event we seek to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation in a manner that adversely affects the holders of our Class B common stock. Finally, as noted above, any conversion of existing shares of Class B or Class C common stock would dilute the relative voting power of all holders of shares of Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2024, the Company had 1,647,295 shares of Class A common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of Class B and Class C common stock. To the extent that the holders of Class B or Class C common stock convert their shares, your proportional vote out of the 49% vote to which the Class A shares (together with the Class C shares, in the case of votes other than for directors) are entitled while shares of Class B common stock remain outstanding will be diluted. Our multiple class structure may depress the trading price or liquidity of our Class A common stock. Our multiple class structure may result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock or in adverse publicity or other adverse consequences. For example, certain index providers have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple class share structures in certain of their indexes. S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell have announced changes to their eligibility criteria for inclusion of shares of public companies on certain indices, including the S&P 500. These changes exclude companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to these 49 indices. In addition, several stockholder advisory firms have announced their opposition to the use of dual or multiple class structures. As a result, the multiple class structure of our common stock may prevent the inclusion of our Class A common stock in these indices and may cause stockholder advisory firms to publish negative commentary about our corporate governance practices or otherwise seek to cause us to change our capital structure. Any such exclusion from indices could result in a less active trading market for our Class A common stock. Any actions or publications by stockholder advisory firms critical of our corporate governance practices or capital structure could also adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock. The difference in the voting rights of our Class A, Class B and Class C common stock could harm the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our Class A common stock ascribes value to the right of holders of our Class B common stock to hold at all times 51% of our voting power. The existence of multiple classes of common stock could also result in less liquidity for our Class A common stock than if there were only one class of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws collectively: authorize three classes of common stock with disparate voting power, the Class A common stock that is listed on the NYSE, the Class B common stock that provide the holders thereof with the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even though such holders own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A, Class B and Class C common stock, and the Class C common stock that do not have a vote on director elections; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to prevent a takeover attempt; authorize the classification of our Board of Directors into separate classes of directors to be elected on a staggered basis; prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a duly called meeting of the stockholders; require the approval of holders of at least 75% of the total combined voting power of the outstanding shares of our common stock to amend our amended and restated by-laws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; and provide for notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL), which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Class A common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 50 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant voting power that our Founders hold, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. These provisions may facilitate management and board entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. We are a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Our Founders hold 51% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, we qualify as a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE corporate governance standards. Under NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance standards, including: the requirement that a majority of the members of our board of directors be independent directors; and the requirement that our compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors. We do not currently rely on these exemptions. However, we could elect to rely on them in the future. Consequently, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of NYSE corporate governance rules and requirements. Our status as a controlled company could make our Class A common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price. The provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requiring exclusive forum in certain courts in the State of Delaware or the federal district courts of the United States for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or stockholders to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine will have to be brought in a state court located within the state of Delaware (or if no state court of the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), in all cases subject to the courts having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. The foregoing provision does not apply to claims arising under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal securities laws for which there is exclusive federal or concurrent federal and state jurisdiction Additionally, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America shall be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Although we believe these exclusive forum provisions benefit us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law and federal securities laws in the types of lawsuits to which each applies, the exclusive forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers or stockholders, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Further, in the event a court finds either exclusive forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be unenforceable or inapplicable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and fluctuate substantially. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: the success of competitive products or technologies; developments related to our existing or any future collaborations; 51 regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; the recruitment or departure of key personnel; actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts; variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; general economic, industry and market conditions; and the other factors described in this Risk Factors section. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. As of January 31, 2025, we had outstanding 13,962,695 shares of Class A common stock, 1,369,518 shares of Class B common stock and 277,777 shares of Class C common stock. Moreover, certain stockholders have rights, subject to specified conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all shares of Class A common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans, which can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation will be your sole source of gain, if any. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. Any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Class A common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity risk management is an integral part of our enterprise risk management program. Our cybersecurity program is designed to align with industry best practices and provide a framework for handling cybersecurity threats and incidents, including threats and incidents associated with the use of services provided by third-party service providers. 52 Our Board has overall oversight responsibility for our risk management and is briefed periodically on cybersecurity risk management and any material cybersecurity incidents by our Chief Information Officer, or CIO, and General Counsel. The Board is responsible for ensuring that management has processes in place designed to (i) identify and evaluate cybersecurity risks to which the company is exposed and (ii) manage cybersecurity risks and mitigate cybersecurity incidents. Management is responsible for identifying, considering and assessing material cybersecurity risks on an ongoing basis, establishing processes to ensure that such potential cybersecurity risk exposures are monitored, putting in place appropriate mitigation measures and maintaining cybersecurity programs.Specifically, our Security Steering Committee ("SSC"), a cross-functional team of employees chaired by our CIO, is responsible for providing strategic guidance and oversight to Amwells privacy, risk and security programs and policies. Management has instituted an Information Security Management System ("ISMS"). The ISMS establishes risk-based safeguards that are designed to adequately protect the Company and information acquired through business operations.Amwell maintains its ISMS in accordance with ISO 27001 standards. Amwell is audited annually by a third-party assessment firm that determines the effectiveness of the procedures and processes of its ISMS. Amwell also self-assesses the performance and effectiveness of the ISMS through monitoring, measurement, analysis, and evaluation of controls and control objectives. The SSC ensures the workforce complies with the ISMS policies, procedures and controls through many channels, including annual review of audit and risk assessment results, multifactor authentication, annual employee training and company-wide communications. Our team of cybersecurity focused employees, under the direction of our CIO, is responsible for assessing our cybersecurity risk and detecting, mitigating and remediating cybersecurity incidents. Our CIO and dedicated personnel are certified and experienced information systems security professionals and information security managers. Personnel with significant security responsibilities receive specialized education and training on their roles and responsibilities prior to being granted access to systems and resources. The pre-employment process for these roles is designed to ensure that security responsibilities are specifically defined. Our CIO has over 15 years of technology leadership experience. Amwells cybersecurity team has implemented processes to: assess the severity of a cybersecurity threat through continuous monitoring and determine the nature, scope and timing of the event to assess whether it is material; identify the source of a cybersecurity threat, including whether the cybersecurity threat is associated with a third-party service provider, utilizing our Information Security Incident Response Plan; implement cybersecurity countermeasures and mitigation strategies; and inform our board of directors of material cybersecurity threats and incidents. In 2024, we did not identify any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. Despite our efforts, we cannot eliminate all risks from cybersecurity threats, or provide assurances that we have not experienced an undetected cybersecurity incident. For more information about these risks, please see Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry and Risk Factors Risks Related to Government Regulation" in this annual report on Form 10-K. Item 2. Properties. Our principal executive office is located in Boston, Massachusetts and is a LEED certified building. We also have offices in Ramat Gan, Israel, Tysons Corner, Virginia, Dublin, Ireland and Bogot and Medellin, Colombi. All of our office locations are leased. We also maintain hardware inventory in facilities based in San Diego, California. We have instituted a remote work policy which has allowed us to reduce our office footprint, including approximately 50% of our corporate headquarters footprint, reducing the climate impact associated with our team members commuting. We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our needs for the immediate future, and that, should it be needed, suitable additional space will be available to accommodate any such expansion. 53 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, in the opinion of our management, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us due to defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, reputational harm and other factors. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 54 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our Class A common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol AMWL. Holders On January 31, 2025, there were 153 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock, two stockholders of record of our Class B common stock and one stockholder of record of our Class C common stock. The actual number of holders of our Class A common stock is greater than the number of record holders, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers or other nominees. The number of holders of record present here also do not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividends We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information required hereunder will be included in our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC with respect to our 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference from Part III. "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters." Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2024. Purchase of Equity Securities The following table provides information about the Companys purchases of its common stock for each month during this quarterly period covered by this report. Period (a) Total number of shares (or units) purchased* (b) Average price paid per share (or unit)* (c) Total number of shares (or units) purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (d) Maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares (or units) that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs October 1 to October 31 143 $ 9.48 November 1 to November 30 13 $ 9.16 December 1 to December 31 26 $ 9.57 Total 182 $ 9.47 *Shares withheld to cover tax withholding obligations under the net settlement provision upon vesting of restricted stock units and exercising of options. 55 Performance Graph The following performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of American Well Corporation under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our Class A common stock with the comparable cumulative return of the Russell 2000 composite index and S&P 500 Health Care Services index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our Class A common stock and in each index on September 17, 2020, the date our Class A common stock began trading on the NYSE. The comparisons are based on historical data and are not necessarily indicative of, nor intended to forecast, the future performance of our Class A common stock. Fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 Item 6. Reserved 56 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis and information contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview Amwell is a leading enterprise platform and software as a service company digitally enabling hybrid care. We empower health providers, payers, and innovators to achieve their digital ambitions, enabling a coordinated experience across in-person, virtual and automated care. We provide our clients with the core technology and services necessary to successfully develop and distribute digital care programs that meet their strategic, operational, financial and clinical objectives under their own brands. We offer our clients products to help weave digital care across all care settings. We bring technology and services that facilitate new models of care, strategic partnerships, consistent execution and better outcomes. As of December 31, 2024, we powered the digital care programs of approximately 50 health plans, which collectively represent more than 80 million covered lives, as well as approximately 100 of the nations largest health systems. Since inception, we have powered more than 33.1 million virtual care visits for our clients, including more than 5.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2024. Our Business Model We sell our enterprise platform and software as a service solutions on a subscription basis, which with our modular platform architecture allows our clients to introduce innovative digital care use cases over time, expanding our subscription revenue opportunity. To support the enterprise platform and software as a service, we offer professional services on a fee-for-service basis and a range of patient and provider Carepoint devices and software that support hospital and home use cases and access to AMG, our affiliated medical group that provides clinical services on a fee-for-service basis. The combination of the enterprise platform, professional services and Carepoint hardware allows our clients to deploy digital care solutions across their full enterprise, deepening their relationships with existing and new patients and members through improved care access and coordination, cost and quality. Our contracts are typically three years in length but may be longer for our largest strategic client partners. Recent Developments On January 8, 2025, we, Aligned Telehealth, LLC ("Aligned"), one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and Avel eCare, LLC (the Buyer) entered into an asset purchase agreement (the Agreement) relating to the sale to the Buyer of all property and assets owned, leased or licensed by the Seller that are primarily used or held for use in connection with our business of providing telepsychiatry services to hospitals and correctional programs (the Business), subject to certain specified exclusions such as cash. In connection with such purchase and sale, the Buyer assumed specified contracts and the related accounts receivable and all accounts payable and accrued expenses of the Business. The purchase price is comprised of (i) an upfront cash payment of $20.7 million, which is equal to 1.1x the Business trailing twelve-month revenue, excluding on-site revenue attributable to certain of the Business contracts, subject to customary adjustments and (ii) an additional cash payment (the Additional Payment) equal to 0.4x the Buyer and its affiliates aggregate revenues arising from the provision of the Business to current customers and potential customers in the sales pipeline during the twelve-month period immediately following the closing, excluding revenues arising from the provision of on-site psychiatric services to certain of the Business contracts and other specified revenues, which Additional Payment is payable within ten days following the final determination of the Additional Payment amount. The Company divested our APC business as it was determined the offering no longer fit our goals around profitability and growth. Streamlining our service offerings will enable us to focus our resources on the Converge platform, strategic customers, and our path to profitability. 57 Key Metrics and Factors Affecting Our Performance We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions: Health Systems: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Average Number of Health System Clients 107 129 153 Total Health System Subscription Revenue $ 52.0 million $ 53.5 million $ 61.2 million Average Annual Contract Value $ 488 thousand $ 415 thousand $ 401 thousand Health System: A health system is an enterprise platform client whose primary business case is the delivery of care by its providers. A typical health system client has many hospitals within its system. The average number of health system clients is calculated by averaging the number of such clients under contract at the beginning and end of each fiscal year. The decline in number of health system clients is due to consolidation in the market as well as churn experienced with re-platforming. Health System Subscription Revenue: Health System subscription revenue consists of all platform-related fees for a health system, including subscription licenses, fees related to software modules, and overage charges, and primarily represents the fee to access the enterprise platform over the contractual period. Subscription revenue may include immaterial amounts from non-health system clients whose business model acts similarly to those clients. Average Annual Contract Value: Average annual contract value is defined as total health system subscription revenue for the fiscal period divided by average number of health system clients. Health Plans: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Average Number of Health Plan Clients 52 55 57 Total Health Plan Subscription Revenue $ 49.9 million $ 49.2 million $ 48.7 million Average Annual Contract Value $ 963 thousand $ 902 thousand $ 862 thousand Health Plan: A health plan is an enterprise platform client whose primary business case is managing the healthcare financial risk of its membership. The average number of health plan clients is calculated by averaging the number of such clients under contract at the beginning and end of each fiscal year. Health Plan Subscription Revenue: Health Plan subscription revenue consists of all platform-related fees for a health plan, including subscription licenses, per member/per month charges and fees related to clinical programs, and primarily represents the fee to access the enterprise platform over the contractual period. Subscription revenue may include immaterial amounts from non-health plan clients whose business model acts similarly to those clients. Average Annual Contract Value: Annual contract value is defined as total health plan subscription revenue for the fiscal period divided by average number of health plan clients. We believe our future growth, success and performance are dependent on many factors, including those set forth below. While these factors present significant opportunities for us, they also represent the challenges that we must successfully address in order to grow our business and improve our results of operations. Digital Care Utilization Digital and hybrid care utilization is a key driver of our business. A clients overall utilization of its digital care platform provides an important measure of the value they derive and drives our business in three important ways. First, to the extent a client succeeds with its digital care program and sees good usage, they are more likely to renew and potentially expand their contract with us. Second, our health systems agreements typically include a certain number of visits conducted by their own providers annually and provide that as certain volume thresholds are exceeded, its annual license fees will rise 58 to reflect this growing value. Third, to the extent that clients utilize provider services from AMG, Amwell derives revenue from clinical fees. We expect that our future revenues will be driven by the growing adoption of digital care and our ability to maintain and grow market share within that market. We continue to experience strong adoption and usage of our enterprise platform and software as a service. In the year ended December 31, 2023, our clients completed a total of 6.3 million visits on our enterprise platform, while in the year ended December 31, 2024, 5.9 million visits were completed. AMG providers accounted for 25% and 25% of total visits performed on our enterprise platform during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Visits: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Overall Visits 5,905,000 6,290,000 6,465,000 AMG Visits 1,475,000 1,590,000 1,640,000 Total Visit Revenue $ 116.5 million $ 119.5 million $ 124.3 million Revenue per Visit $ 79 $ 75 $ 76 AMG Visit: An AMG visit is a case completed by our AMG affiliate providers and visit revenue reflects fee-for-service revenue to AMG for the visit. Invest in Growth We expect to continue to focus on long-term revenue growth through investments in technology development and sales and marketing efforts. In addition, we believe continued investments in platform modules and clinical programs will allow us to further penetrate our products and services into our existing client relationships and new opportunities. Accordingly, in the short term we expect these activities to result in net losses, but in the long term, we anticipate that these investments will positively impact our results of operations. Acquisitions We have expanded and intend to continue to expand our enterprise platform and software as a service through research and development as well as the pursuit of selective acquisitions. We have completed multiple acquisitions since our inception, which we believe have expanded the channels that we serve and our distribution capabilities as well as broadening our service offering. Our acquisitions of SilverCloud and Conversa add proven longitudinal care and behavioral healthcare capabilities to our digital care enablement platform. SilverCloud is a leading digital mental health platform. Conversa is a leader in automated virtual healthcare. Acquisition costs and integration costs are an additional one-time cost incurred as part of the acquisitions and investment in the future growth of the business. Seasonality Visit volumes typically follow the annual flu season, rising during quarter four and quarter one and falling in the summer months. While we sell to and implement our solutions to clients year-round, we experience some seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our clients and when we launch our solutions to members. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a metric used by management in assessing the health of our business and our operating performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measure as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for our non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure 59 stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our operating performance. Because adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes and in evaluating acquisition opportunities. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude (i) interest income and other income, net, (ii) tax benefit and expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) goodwill impairment, (v) stock-based compensation expense, (vi) severance and strategic transformation costs, (vii) capitalized software costs, (viii) litigation expenses related to the defense of our patents in the patent infringement claim filed by Teladoc and (ix) other items affecting our results that we do not view as representative of our ongoing operations. We had no such other items during the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA from the most comparable GAAP measure, net loss, for each of the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022: Years Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 2022 Net loss $ (212,638 ) $ (679,171 ) $ (272,072 ) Add: Depreciation and amortization 32,975 31,492 26,153 Interest and other income, net (10,757 ) (19,422 ) (6,123 ) Expense from income taxes 2,751 3,860 64 Goodwill impairment 436,479 Stock-based compensation 47,505 72,040 69,144 Severance and strategic transformation costs(1) 20,892 4,414 Noncash expenses and contingent consideration adjustments(2) 12,153 Capitalized software costs (15,102 ) (15,056 ) (10,155 ) Litigation expense(3) 5,575 Adjusted EBITDA $ (134,374 ) $ (165,364 ) $ (175,261 ) (1) Severance and strategic transformation costs include expenses associated with the termination of employees and expenses that focus on transforming the strategy of the Companys sales and growth organization as well as our overall cost structure during the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, as described below in Severance and strategic transformation costs. (2) Noncash expenses and contingent consideration adjustments include, noncash compensation costs incurred by selling shareholders and adjustments made to the contingent consideration. (3) Litigation expense relates to legal costs related to the Teladoc litigation which was dismissed pursuant to a confidential settlement between the parties in 2022. 60 Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include (i) adjusted EBITDA does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future, and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures. Our public offering and acquisition-related expenses, including legal, accounting and other professional expenses, reflect cash expenditures and we expect such expenditures to recur from time to time. Our adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we calculate the measure, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. In evaluating adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to loss before benefit from income taxes, net loss, earnings per share, or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our performance, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. Severance and strategic transformation costs In the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company recorded charges of $20.9 million, in connection with severance and strategic transformation costs. The Company has executed a series of individual actions designed to maintain or improve our operating results and profitability. The Company continues to evaluate potential actions and may incur additional strategic transformation costs in future periods. Our strategic transformation actions include transformational consulting, headcount reductions, and other related transitional amounts to maintain our competitive footprint. Strategic transformation actions are generally funded within twelve months of initiation and are funded by cash flows from operating activities and existing cash balances. We plan to incur additional strategic transformation costs in order to align our recurring cost structure with our current revenue profile. The timing and amount of the incurrence of such future strategic transformation costs are dependent on market conditions, customer actions and other factors. For further information, see Note 19, "Severance and strategic transformation costs," to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The Company has demonstrated the strength of our revenue as a direct result of the increasing acceptance of digital care, our penetration of the market, and the successful launch of new or expanded products that enable broadened applications for care delivered virtually. Revenue performance is reflective of the strong foundation that has been built, focused around health plans, health systems, and our provider network. We generate revenues from the use of our enterprise platform and software as a service in the form of recurring subscription fees for use, and related services and Carepoint sales. We also generate revenue from the performance of AMG patient visits. Cost of Revenues, Excluding Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of revenues primarily consist of hosting fees paid to our hosting providers, costs incurred in connection with our professional services, technical and hosting support, and costs for running our affiliated provider network operations team. These costs primarily include employee-related expenses (including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and travel). Cost of revenues are primarily driven by the size of our provider network and the hosting and technical support required to service our clients. Our business model is designed to be scalable and to leverage fixed costs to generate higher revenues. While we currently expect increased investments to support accelerated growth, we also expect increased efficiencies and economies of scale. Our quarterly cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues is expected to fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these aforementioned factors. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. 61 Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software and hardware engineering, information technology infrastructure, security and compliance and product development (inclusive of stock-based compensation for our research and development employees). Research and development expenses also include the periodic outsourcing of similar functions to third party specialists. In recent years, we accelerated the expansion of our enterprise platform volume capacity and the development of additional functionality through new programs and modules. We have made an effort to optimize our resourcing structure with a mix of nearshore and offshore employees and contractors, resulting in a more efficient cost structure. While we have recognized an increase in the research and development expense throughout the prior years, the corresponding future revenue growth is expected to result in lower expenses as a percentage of revenue. We believe increased spending in prior years was a temporary investment to accelerate development of a more scalable and economically beneficial solution that will properly position the Company to benefit in the long term and have seen marked decline during 2024 as we return to normal levels of spend in future periods. We expect research and development expense to decrease over the next year and then to remain flat in future periods. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our research and development expenses based on customer demand and emerging market trends. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, commissions, travel and stock-based compensation costs for our employees engaged in commercial activities. We will continue to invest appropriately in sales expenses as we look to grow with new prospects and expand the business of our existing clients. We will continue to elevate the skills and impact of our sales personnel and related account management teams as we look to provide a differentiated and enhanced client experience to our growing client base as well as identifying new strategic market opportunities. Marketing costs consist primarily of personnel and related expenses (inclusive of stock-based compensation) for our marketing staff that primarily support the sales organization and client engagement. Marketing costs also include third-party independent research, digital marketing campaigns, participation in trade shows, brand messaging, public relations costs, and the costs of communication materials that are produced to generate awareness and utilization of our enterprise platform and software as a service among our clients and their users. We expect sales and marketing expense to decrease over the next year and then to remain flat in future periods. Our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our advertising and marketing expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel and related expenses, and professional fees incurred by finance, legal, human resources, information technology, our executives, and executive administration staff. They also include stock-based compensation for employees in these departments and expenses related to auditing, consulting, legal, and corporate insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease over the next year and then remain relatively flat in future periods, based on the impact of cost savings measure put in place throughout 2024. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the timing of contracts with strategic customers and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense includes the amortization of intangible assets and depreciation related to our fixed assets. Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, which are customer relationships, contractor relationships, technology and trade names, as well as the amortization of capitalized software costs. 62 Goodwill Impairment Goodwill impairment is the result of the fair value of the Company's one reporting unit being less than its carrying value. The goodwill impairment resulted from sustained decreases in the Company's publicly quoted share price and market capitalization Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net The balance of interest income and other income (expense), net, consists predominantly of interest income on our money-market and short-term investments. We did not incur material interest expenses in the period as there were no outstanding debts or notes payables. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes The income tax provision and benefit were primarily due to state and foreign income tax expense, and benefit related to release of the valuation allowance as a result of our acquisitions. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent management believes it is not more likely than not to be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income. Management makes estimates and judgments about future taxable income based on assumptions that are consistent with our plans and estimates. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth our summarized consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 and the dollar and percentage change between the respective periods: Years Ended December 31, Fiscal Year 2024 to Fiscal Year 2023 Fiscal Year 2023 to Fiscal Year 2022 (in thousands) 2024 2023 2022 Change % Change % Revenue $ 254,364 $ 259,047 $ 277,190 $ (4,683 ) (2 )% $ (18,143 ) (7 )% Costs and operating expenses: Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 155,412 164,287 160,422 (8,875 ) (5 )% 3,865 2 % Research and development 86,065 105,827 138,487 (19,762 ) (19 )% (32,660 ) (24 )% Sales and marketing 76,272 86,460 81,628 (10,188 ) (12 )% 4,832 6 % General and administrative 121,174 126,645 146,353 (5,471 ) (4 )% (19,708 ) (13 )% Depreciation and amortization expense 32,975 31,492 26,153 1,483 5 % 5,339 20 % Goodwill impairment 436,479 (436,479 ) 100 % 436,479 100 % Total costs and operating expenses 471,898 951,190 553,043 (479,292 ) (50 )% 398,147 72 % Loss from operations (217,534 ) (692,143 ) (275,853 ) 474,609 (69 )% (416,290 ) 151 % Interest income and other income (expense), net 10,757 19,422 6,123 (8,665 ) (45 )% 13,299 217 % Loss before expense from income taxes and loss from equity method investment (206,777 ) (672,721 ) (269,730 ) 465,944 (69 )% (402,991 ) 149 % Expense from income taxes (2,751 ) (3,860 ) (64 ) 1,109 (29 )% (3,796 ) 5,931 % Loss from equity method investment (3,110 ) (2,590 ) (2,278 ) (520 ) 20 % (312 ) 14 % Net loss (212,638 ) (679,171 ) (272,072 ) 466,533 (69 )% (407,099 ) 150 % Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest (4,495 ) (4,007 ) (1,643 ) (488 ) 12 % (2,364 ) 144 % Net loss attributable to American Well Corporation $ (208,143 ) $ (675,164 ) $ (270,429 ) $ 467,021 (69 )% $ (404,735 ) 150 % Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2024, subscription revenue increased $3.2 million due to growth in our strategic clients. While our aggregated number of health systems clients declined during re-platforming and market consolidation, we have retained the majority of our historically significant clients and with the Amwell Converge platform have been able to strengthen and expand our strategic clients during the year. The increase was offset with a decrease in visit revenue of $3.0 million due to a decline in visit volume and lower utilization in specialty care, and a decrease in other revenue of $4.8 million 63 primarily related to a decrease in marketing and services revenue due to timing of services provided to various strategic customers each year. For the year ended December 31, 2023, subscription revenue declined $8.6 million due to customer churn during re-platforming, partially offset by growth in our existing strategic clients. While our aggregated number of health systems clients declined during re-platforming, we have retained the majority of our historically significant clients and with the Amwell Converge platform have been able to strengthen and expand our strategic clients during the year. Visit revenue decreased $4.9 million due to a decline in visit volume and lower utilization in specialty care. Other revenue decreased by $4.7 million primarily related to a decrease in hardware and services revenue. Costs of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets For the year ended December 31, 2024, the decrease in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in marketing services provided for customers of $3.2 million, and a decrease in employee and provider costs of $3.6 million, driven by headcount reduction and lower visit volume. Consulting spend also decreased by $2.1 million. The Company's cost savings measures continue to have a positive impact on gross margin. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to an increase of $4.5 million in employee-related costs such as salary and benefits for the fulfilment of professional service obligations. Third party software costs also increased $3.0 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in hardware costs of $2.4 million due to the decline in hardware revenue and a decline in provider related costs of $1.3 million due to a decrease in visits. The decrease in gross margin contribution is a result of a shift in revenue mix. Research and Development Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, the decrease in research and development expense was primarily driven by a decrease of $12 million in consulting spend as the peak development of the Amwell Converge platform is complete. There was also a decrease in employee-related costs (including stock comp expense) of $7.6 million due to headcount reduction. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease in research and development expense was primarily driven by a decrease of $24.8 million in consulting services as spend related to the development of the Amwell Converge platform has declined (contributing to this decrease was $15.1 million capitalized as software development costs) as well as a decrease of $1.2 million in third party software costs. There was a decrease in $0.7 million in employee related costs and $0.6 million in recruiting and hew hire costs due to a reduction in headcount. Research and development expense also decreased as there was no non-cash compensation in the current year related to the SilverCloud acquisition, and there was a charge of $3.4 million in the prior year due to the settlement of the SilverCloud bonus escrow award in 2022. Total research and development employee headcount decreased to 289 on December 31, 2024, as compared to 332 on December 31, 2023 and 358 on December 31, 2022. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, the decrease in sales and marketing expense was driven by a decrease in employee-related costs of $8.6 million, a decrease in other consulting spend of $1.9 million, a decrease in business related travel of $1.1 million and a decrease in marketing spend of $1.0 million, due to headcount reduction and cost savings measures put into place. These decreases were partially offset by $3.6 million in non-recurring consulting costs related to organizational strategy initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the increase in sales and marketing expense primarily consisted of $11.0 million in employee-related costs including severance, stock compensation expense (related to accelerated vesting on an executive grant), and headcount realignment. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $2.1 million in advertising spend, $1.2 million reduced spend on conferences and tradeshows. Sales and marketing expense also decreased as there was no non-cash compensation in the current year related to the SilverCloud acquisition, and there was a charge of $2.2 million in the prior year due to the settlement of the SilverCloud bonus escrow award in 2022. Total sales and marketing employee headcount decreased to 180 on December 31, 2024, as compared to 304 on December 31, 2023 and 291 on December 31, 2022. 64 General and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease in employee-related costs of $9.6 million. The employee related costs were driven primarily by the decrease in stock compensation expense as higher value historic awards had become fully expensed, as well as headcount reductions. In addition, insurance costs decreased by $2.3 million and consulting spend decreased $2.9 million. There were also decreases of $0.8 million in business related travel and $1.2 million in third-party software costs. The reduction in spend was due to cost savings measures put into place. These decreases were partially offset by $5.0 million in non-recurring consulting costs related to organizational strategy initiatives and $7.1 million in bad debt mainly driven by service interruptions in third-party providers. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease of $6.0 million in legal costs mainly due to the Teladoc litigation settlement in the second quarter of 2022. There was no non-cash compensation or earnout adjustment in the current year, while there were total charges of $6.5 million in the prior year, due to the settlement of the SilverCloud bonus escrow awards and the SilverCloud revenue earnout in 2022. Due to a reduction in headcount employee related expenses decreased by $2.5 million and recruiting and new hire costs decrease $0.9 million. There was also a decrease in insurance costs of $2.9 million. General and administrative expenses, excluding the decrease in stock-based compensation, are expected to decrease in 2025 and then remain relatively flat in future periods as we have now recognized the impact of many strategic transformation costs. Total general and administrative employee headcount decreased to 189 on December 31, 2024, as compared to 229 on December 31, 2023 and 248 on December 31, 2022. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation expense declined $0.3 million from the year ended December 31, 2024 as assets from prior years have become fully depreciated. Amortization expense increased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The increase in amortization was related to the amortization of the internally developed software intangible assets that had a full year of amortization. Depreciation expense remained consistent for the year ended December 31, 2023. Amortization expense increased by $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in amortization was related to the amortization of the internally developed software intangible assets. Goodwill Impairment During the year ended December 31, 2023, the goodwill was fully impaired by $436.5 million as a result of sustained decreases in the Company's publicly quoted share price and market capitalization. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), net For the year ended December 31, 2024, interest income and other expenses consist primarily of interest income and gains from our cash equivalents. The decrease in interest income is due to a reduction in our cash equivalents, which were invested in money market securities yielding a lower rate of return for the majority of 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2023, interest income and other expenses consist primarily of interest income and gains from our cash equivalents and short-term investments, the increase in interest income is due to the increase in interest rates on investments held during the year (investments matured just prior to December 31, 2023). (Expense) Benefit from Income Taxes Income tax expense was $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to income tax expense of $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in the expense is primarily due to an decrease in foreign tax expense. 65 Income tax expense was $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to income tax expense of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in the expense is primarily due to an increase in foreign tax expense. Loss from Equity Method Investment The Company and Cleveland Clinic partnered to form a joint venture, under the name CCAW, JV LLC, to provide broad access to comprehensive and high acuity care services via digital care. The Company does not have a controlling financial interest in CCAW, JV LLC, but it does have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of CCAW, JV LLC. Therefore, the Company accounts for its investments in CCAW, JV LLC using the equity method of accounting. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company recognized a loss of $3.1 million and $2.6 million as its proportionate share of the joint venture results of operations, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents a summary of our cash flow activity for the periods set forth below: Years December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Net cash used in operating activities $ (127,338 ) $ (148,343 ) $ (192,323 ) Net cash used in investing activities (18,652 ) (19,168 ) (11,630 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,381 2,147 (3,612 ) Total $ (144,609 ) $ (165,364 ) $ (207,565 ) Sources of Financing Our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $228.3 million as of December 31, 2024, which were held for a variety of growth initiatives and investments as well as working capital purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of money market funds. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company incurred a loss from operations of $217.5 million and a net loss of $212.6 million for year ended December 31, 2024 and had an accumulated deficit of $1,965.9 million as of December 31, 2024. The Company has no debt as of December 31, 2024 and expects to generate operating losses in future years. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of the financial statements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, contract renewal activity, number of consultations on our enterprise platform, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, our expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of digital care services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Cash Used in Operating Activities For the year ended December 31, 2024, cash used in operating activities was $127.3 million. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $212.6 million. The net loss was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology and infrastructure perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business including expansion of business with existing clients and the addition of new strategic agreements. Cash used in operations reflects an increase in accounts receivable of $25.0 million which was primarily driven by service delays in third party providers. The net loss was 66 partially offset by non-cash expenses of $95.3 million (primarily stock-based compensation of $47.5 million and depreciation and amortization of $33.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $148.3 million. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $679.2 million. The net loss, excluding impairment charge, was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology and infrastructure perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business including expansion of business with existing clients. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $546.3 million (primarily goodwill impairment of $436.5 million, stock-based compensation of $72.2 million and depreciation and amortization of $31.5 million). For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $192.3 million. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $272.1 million. The net loss for the year was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from both a personnel and technology perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business from expanded use of our enterprise software by existing clients through increased number of members they provided access to the enterprise software, increased number of programs, increased modules and increased volume of care delivered on our enterprise software by our clients own providers. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $107.8 million (primarily stock-based compensation of $67.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $26.2 million). Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Cash used in investing activities consisted of $15.1 million of capitalized software development costs and a $3.4 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture. Cash used in investing activities was $19.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Cash used in investing activities consisted of $15.1 million of capitalized software development costs, a $3.9 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture, and purchases of investments of $390.0 million offset by $390.0 million in proceeds from maturities of investments Cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Cash used in investing activities consisted of a $2.0 million investment in the CCAW, JV LLC joint venture with Cleveland Clinic, $10.2 million of capitalized software development costs, $0.3 million in the purchases of property and equipment, and purchases of investments of $499.2 million offset by $500.0 million in proceeds from maturities of investments. Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2024, was $1.4 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of $1.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $2.1 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of $2.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan, offset by $0.6 in the repurchase of stock to cover tax withholding obligations upon vesting of restricted stock units. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, was $3.6 million. Cash used in financing activities consisted of the payment of the Conversa integration earnout of $11.8 million, partially offset by $8.2 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan. Contractual Obligations The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2024: Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating Leases $ 8,303 $ 3,763 $ 4,540 $ $ Purchase Obligations $ 39,530 16,088 23,442 Total $ 47,833 $ 19,851 $ 27,982 $ $ 67 Our existing office and hosting facilities lease agreements provide us with the option to renew and generally provide for rental payments on a graduated basis. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations and if we exercised the office and hosting facilities lease options. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We are therefore not exposed to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in those types of relationships. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience, current business factors, and various other assumptions that the Company believes are necessary to consider to form a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic and political factors, and changes in the Companys business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained, and as the Companys operating environment evolves. Changes in estimates are made when circumstances warrant. Such changes in estimates are reflected in the reported results of operations; if material, the effects of changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates and assumptions reflected in these consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, business combinations, goodwill and intangible assets and stock-based compensation. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing at the end of this Annual Report for a description of our other significant accounting policies. Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenue from contracts with clients who purchase access to the Companys enterprise platform and software as a service. The Company also provides implementation and post go-live professional services for its enterprise platform and software as a service. Access to the enterprise platform, includes the ability for clients to access the AMG network of medical professionals, as well as, in certain cases, support and maintenance and other professional services. The typical contract term is three years. Most of the Companys contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Clients typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if the Company fails to perform in accordance with the contractual terms. For clients who purchase access to the enterprise platform, the Company hosts a dedicated instance of the enterprise platform, white-labeled under the clients own name, branding, and with customized workflows and operating choices. Certain implementation services are required in order for the client to drive its intended benefit. These implementation services generally span several months and are not performed by another entity. We recognize revenue from contracts with clients using the five-step method described in Note 2 in our consolidated financial statements. At contract inception, we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract and whether the combined or single contract includes more than one performance obligation. We combine contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same client if we determine that the contracts are negotiated as a 68 package with a single commercial objective; the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract; or the services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation. In general, we satisfy the majority of our performance obligations over time as we transfer the promised services to our clients. We review the contract terms and conditions to evaluate the timing and amount of revenue recognition; the related contract balances; and our remaining performance obligations. These evaluations require significant judgment around the proper identification of performance obligations, which could affect the timing and amount of revenue recognized. Deferred revenues consist of the unearned portion of billed fees for our enterprise platform and software as a service access fees and related services, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The Company estimates the amount of revenue it expects to recognize during the twelve-month period following the financial statement date which is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets is the result of historical acquisitions. As a result of these transactions, contractor and customer relationships, acquired technology, and trade name were identified as intangible assets, and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. When there is a triggering event the Company assesses the potential impact on its definite-lived intangibles and other long-lived assets. To test intangible assets for impairment the Company performs an undiscounted cash flow analysis to establish fair value. The significant estimates used in fair value methodology, which are based on Level 3 inputs, include the Company's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows, including revenue, gross margin and operating expenses. Reasonably possible changes in those assumptions could result in non-cash impairment charges in the future. Stock-Based Compensation We measure all stock-based awards granted to employees and directors based on the fair value on the date of the grant and recognize the corresponding compensation expense of those awards over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. We generally issue stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance-based market condition share awards ("PSU's") to employees. Stock options and RSUs only have service-based vesting conditions and the Company records the expense for these awards using the straight-line method. PSUs have multiple tranches each with certain market capitalization or stock price milestones and service-based vesting conditions. The Company records the expense for these awards over the estimated life of each tranche We estimate the fair value of each stock option grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which uses as inputs the fair value of our common stock and assumptions we make for the volatility of our common stock, the expected term of our stock options, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and our expected dividend yield. The assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair Value of Class A Common StockFollowing our IPO, we rely on the closing price of our Class A common stock as reported on the date of grant to determine the fair value of our Class A common stock, as shares of our Class A common stock are traded in the public market. Expected TermThe expected term represents the period that the stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. We determine the expected term using the simplified method. The simplified method deems the term to be the average of the time-to-vesting and the contractual life of the options. For stock options granted to non-employees, the expected term equals the remaining contractual term of the option from the vesting date. Expected VolatilityAs we have limited trading history for our common stock, the expected volatility was estimated by taking the average historic price volatility for industry peers, consisting of several public companies in our industry that are either similar in size, stage, or financial leverage, over a period equivalent to the expected term of the awards. Risk-Free Interest RateThe risk-free interest rate is calculated using the average of the published interest rates of U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with maturities that are commensurate with the expected term. Dividend YieldThe dividend yield assumption is zero, as we have no history of, or plans to make, dividend payments. 69 The fair value of the PSUs is estimated using a Monte-Carlo valuation simulation. Similar to stock options, the Company estimates its expected stock volatility based on the historical volatility of a publicly traded set of peer companies and expects to continue to do so until such time as it has adequate historical data regarding the volatility of its own traded stock price. The risk-free interest rate is determined by reference to the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant of the award for time periods approximately equal to the expected term of the award. The expected dividend yield is based on the fact that the Company has never paid cash dividends and does not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Annual Report.