Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. All statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future results of operations, including descriptions of our business plan and strategies, are forward-looking statements. These statements often include words such as anticipate, expect, suggests, plan, believe, intend, estimates, targets, projects, should, could, would, may, will, forecast, or the negative of these terms, and other similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. The forward-looking statements and projections are subject to and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements or projections. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements and projections are based on reasonable assumptions at the time they are made, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and projections. Important factors that may materially affect such forward-looking statements and projections include the following: weak growth and increased volatility in the digital care market; our history of losses and the risk we may not achieve profitability; inability to adapt to rapid technological changes; our limited number of significant clients and the risk that we may lose their business; increased competition from existing and potential new participants in the healthcare industry; changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends and our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; compliance with regulations concerning personally identifiable information and personal health industry; slower than expected growth in patient adoption of digital care and in platform usage by either clients or patients; inability to grow our base of affiliated and non-affiliated providers sufficient to serve patient demand; our ability to comply with federal and state privacy regulations and the significant liability that could result from a cybersecurity breach or our failure to comply with such regulations; our ability to commence and complete any strategic transformation initiatives and the impact of such initiatives; our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with third parties; the impact of the seasonal viruses on our business or on our ability to forecast our businesss financial outlook; the risk that the insurance we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures; and the election by the Defense Health Agency to deploy our solution across their entire enterprise; the continuation of the DHA relationship beyond July of 2025 with comparable financial terms. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive and does not necessarily include all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. The information in this Quarterly Report should be read carefully in conjunction with other uncertainties and potential events described in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 15, 2024 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2024), (the Form 10-K). The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law or regulation, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances NYSE Notice On April 2, 2024, the Company received written notice from The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) notifying it that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for the Company's common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion on the NYSE pursuant to Section 802.01C of the NYSEs Listed Company Manual. 21 On June 18, 2024, the Companys stockholders approved a reverse stock split of its Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock (collectively, the "common stock") at a ratio ranging from 1-for-10 to 1-for-20, with the exact ratio determined by the Companys Board of Directors. On June 28, 2024, the Company's Board of Directors approved a 1-for-20 reverse stock split (Reverse Split) of its common stock that became effective on July 10, 2024. All shares of the Companys common stock, stock-based instruments and per-share data included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the condensed consolidated financial statements, have been retroactively adjusted as though the Reverse Stock Split has been effected prior to all periods presented. On August 1, 2024, the NYSE indicated that the Company's stock price was above the NYSE's minimum requirement of $1 based on a 30-trading day average. Accordingly, the Company cured the previously disclosed deficiency with respect to the continued listing minimum price criteria set forth in Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual as of August 1, 2024. Overview Amwell is a leading enterprise platform and software company digitally enabling hybrid care. We empower health providers, payers, and innovators to achieve their digital ambitions, enabling a coordinated experience across in-person, virtual and automated care. We provide our clients with the core technology and services necessary to successfully develop and distribute digital care programs that meet their strategic, operational, financial and clinical objectives under their own brands. Founded in 2006, Amwell pioneered virtual healthcare. Today, Amwell extends digital care beyond telehealth, enabling care across in-person, virtual and automated modalities and providing an open, scalable platform that can flex and grow alongside our clients. We deliver technology, services, programs and connected devices that facilitate new models of care, strategic partnerships, consistent execution and better outcomes. Together with our clients and innovation partners, we forge a new hybrid model of care delivery that adapts as needs evolve and makes care more accessible for all. As of December 31, 2023, we powered the digital care programs of more than 50 health plans, which collectively represent more than 100 million covered lives, as well as approximately 115 of the nations largest health systems. Since inception, we have powered approximately 31.7 million virtual care visits for our clients, including approximately 4.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The Amwell ConvergeTM Platform The Amwell Converge platform is the latest version of our enterprise platform software and is our go-forward strategy to digitally enable a unified, scalable healthcare experience across all care settings. It has been designed from the ground up with the holistic understanding that the future of care of any one person inevitably will blend a mix of in-person, virtual and automated experiences. Designed to be future-ready, reliable, flexible, scalable, secure and fully integrated with other healthcare software systems, the Amwell Converge platform offers state-of-the-art data architecture and video capabilities, flexibility and scalability, as well as a user experience focused on the needs of patients, members and providers. The telehealth of yesterday has grown to encompass hybrid care delivery models and the flow of data that drives healthcare. By providing a single platform for the digital distribution of care, the Amwell Converge platform will accelerate innovation and interoperability for health system and health plan clients as well as other healthcare innovators who aim to offer a seamless experience for providers, patients and members. The development of the Amwell Converge platform represented a re-platforming by the Company to provide our customer base with an improved and more robust solution. This re-platforming has been an ongoing effort that resulted in increased research and development costs during the peak development period in 2022 and the first half of 2023, and we expect to see a return to normal levels of research and development spend in the coming quarters. Research and development in 2024 includes expenses that represent an investment in our government sector customers and to development of the government product that we believe will drive revenue growth in the coming years. We believe we have completed the majority of the investment needed, and will see a reduction in our ongoing research and development expense run rate in the fourth quarter of 2024. Re-platforming can impact timing of revenue as we manage on-boarding and customer churn. During the three months ended September 30, 2024, approximately 70% of our visits were provided on the Amwell Converge platform. As of September 30, 2024, we have a thumbs-up rating by patients and providers of over 90%. A major strategic focus for us in 2024 is the delivery of solutions to our government clients as well as our existing commercial clients. In addition, we are focused on the transformational steps necessary to re-accelerate growth during this period of transition. We also continue to focus on the migration of our remaining health plan and health system clients onto the Amwell Converge platform. 22 Our Business Model We sell our enterprise platform and software as a service solutions on a subscription basis, which with our modular platform architecture allows our clients to introduce innovative digital care use cases over time, expanding our subscription revenue opportunity. To support our solutions, we offer professional services on a fee-for-service basis, a range of patient and provider CarepointTM devices and software that support hospital and home use cases and access to Amwell Medical Group ("AMG"), our affiliated medical group that provides clinical services on a fee-for-service basis. The combination of the enterprise platform, professional services and Carepoint devices allows our clients to deploy digital care solutions across their full enterprise, deepening their relationships with existing and new patients and members through improved care access and coordination, cost and quality. Our contracts are typically three years in length but may be longer for our largest strategic client partners. Total subscription fees received were $26.2 million and $28.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and $78.6 million and $85.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Health Systems For health systems, our enterprise platform enables provider-to-provider virtual care for use cases ranging from stroke and acute psychiatry evaluations to virtual nursing and e-sitting. Our suite of Carepoint devices can enhance in-person care, whether the clients want to turn existing equipment such as televisions or iPads into digital access points or use Amwell Carepoint carts and peripherals. Our enterprise platform also helps extend care outside the care setting by enabling both on-demand and scheduled provider-to-patient care for a range of use cases. This includes, but is not limited to, urgent care, primary care, behavioral health, chronic disease management, and specialty follow-up care. To augment in-person and virtual care, our automated care programs and digital mental health services help clinicians and health plans engage patients, members, and consumers before, after, or in-between visits to improve care plan adherence and prevent costly escalations. To supplement a health systems own network of healthcare providers, health systems often choose to purchase clinical services from AMG to deliver care for certain specialties such as telepsychiatry, behavioral health therapy and general urgent care, or to simply operate as backup providers on nights and weekends. AMG services are provided on a fee-for-service basis. Health Plans For health plans, employers and government entities, our enterprise platform enables a member-centric hybrid care experience, seamlessly connecting with current technology investments and offering an open architecture that allows simple integration of future innovation. The platform enables a broad set of use cases, including primary, urgent, mental health, specialty, and chronic care. Our virtual primary care solution offers a primary care navigation hub that supports a longitudinal care experience for members, integrating virtual visits with digital behavioral health tools and condition-specific automated care programs, with escalation back to virtual and/or in person care, if needed. Our urgent care solution helps members conveniently and effectively address unplanned care needs without visiting the emergency department or local urgent care facility, driving quality outcomes at a lower cost. Our typical health plan contract includes a recurring subscription fee based on the number of members who have access to our enterprise software plus additional subscription fees associated with add-on programs that extend from urgent care services to longitudinal care. As the health plan expands its offerings on our enterprise software through additional programs or additional covered lives, there is a corresponding increase in subscription fees. Our health plan clients also purchase clinical services that leverage our AMG network. These visit consultations are charged on a fee-for-service basis and range in price based on the type of consultation and the specialty of the provider. Government Healthcare Services We offer new tailored healthcare solutions for government clients that provide efficient and accessible care options to meet the diverse needs of government healthcare systems, personnel and their families. The Amwell Converge platform enables government healthcare providers to extend care beyond traditional settings, reaching personnel wherever they are stationed. With both on-demand and scheduled care options, we support a wide range of healthcare needs, including urgent care, primary care, behavioral health, chronic disease management, and specialty consultations. 23 Visits Amwells clinical affiliate AMG has built a network of providers who are licensed and credentialed to deliver care on our enterprise software across the entire United States. This clinical network is designed and operated in a way that allows us to meet the aggregate visit demand requirements of our health plan and health system clients, spanning a broad mix of specialties, including Family Medicine, Lactation, Nutrition, Psychiatry, Therapy and Women's Health. AMG earns fee-for-service revenue for each episode of care delivered on our enterprise software by its providers with fees varying by physician specialty or clinical program. These clinical fees vary significantly per consultation or case based on the specialty and may require an additional module subscription, as in the case of telepsychiatry. Fees received from AMG-related visits were $27.5 million and $26.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and $87.3 million and $87.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Services & Carepoint Devices We offer a full suite of paid, supporting services to our clients to enable their virtual care offerings, including professional services to facilitate virtual care implementation, workflow design, systems integration and service expansion. To help our clients promote adoption and utilization, we offer patient and provider engagement services through our internal digital engagement agency. Amwell CarepointTM devices enable healthcare providers to leverage proprietary carts and transform existing tablets and TVs into digital access points in clinical settings, helping to address personnel shortages and access limitations. Our proprietary Carepoint devices coupled with our Carepoint Calling technology enables providers to deliver digital care into clinical care locations, such as the emergency department, community hospitals, clinics, and hospital-at-home, as well as into community settings such as retail stores, employer sites, skilled nursing facilities, correctional facilities, and schools. Our Virtual Nursing and patient monitoring (eSitter) offerings leverage these Carepoint devices to augment on-site nurse teams with virtual staff, and leverage technology to increase patient safety and nurse efficiencies. Carepoint offerings consist of hardware integrated into our enterprise software but can also be deployed independent of our software solution. Our Carepoint hardware is designed by our product development teams and manufactured through partner and contract relationships. Fees received from the provision of services and Carepoint devices were $7.3 million and $6.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and $17.5 million and $15.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Key Metrics and Factors Affecting Our Performance We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. While these metrics present significant opportunities for us, they also represent the challenges that we must successfully address in order to grow our business and improve the results of our operations. Digital Care Utilization Digital and hybrid care utilization is a key driver of our business. A clients overall utilization of its digital care platform provides an important measure of the value they derive and drives our business in three important ways. First, to the extent a client succeeds with its digital care program and sees good usage, they are more likely to renew and potentially expand their contract with us. Second, our health systems agreements typically include a certain number of visits conducted by their own providers annually and provide that as certain volume thresholds are exceeded, its annual license fees will rise to reflect this growing value. Third, to the extent that clients utilize provider services from AMG, Amwell derives revenue from clinical fees. We expect that our future revenues will be driven by the growing adoption of digital and hybrid care and our ability to maintain and grow market share within that market. 24 We continue to experience strong adoption and usage of our enterprise software and products. In the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our clients completed a total of 4.5 million visits using our enterprise software, while in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, 4.6 million visits were completed. AMG providers accounted for 24% and 24% of total visits performed using our enterprise software during the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Total Overall Quarterly Visits Quarter Ended Overall Visits Performed by Client Providers September 30, 2024 1,380,000 76 % June 30, 2024 1,500,000 76 % March 31, 2024 1,665,000 76 % December 31, 2023 1,650,000 73 % September 30, 2023 1,445,000 76 % June 30, 2023 1,485,000 76 % Regulatory Environment Our operations are subject to comprehensive United States federal, state and local regulations as well as international regulation in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Our ability to operate profitably will depend in part upon our ability, and that of our affiliated providers, to maintain all necessary licenses and to operate in compliance with applicable laws and rules. During the COVID-19 pandemic, state and federal regulatory authorities loosened or removed a number of regulatory requirements in order to increase the availability of digital care services. For example, changes were made to the Medicare and Medicaid programs (through waivers and other regulatory authority) to increase access to digital care services by, among other things, increasing reimbursement, permitting the enrollment of out of state providers and eliminating prior authorization requirements. Most Medicare reimbursement flexibilities have been extended through December 31, 2024, including a waiver for geographic site restrictions (patient may be located at home), the expansion of eligible provider types, and coverage for audio-only consults. Seasonality Visit volumes typically follow the annual flu season, rising during quarter four and quarter one and falling in the summer months. While we sell to and implement our solutions to clients year-round, we experience some seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our clients and when we launch our solutions to members. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a metric used by management in assessing the health of our business and our operating performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measure as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for our non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our operating performance. Because adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes and in evaluating acquisition opportunities. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude (i) interest income and other income, net, (ii) tax benefit and expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) goodwill impairment, (v) stock-based compensation expense, (vi) severance and strategic transformation costs and (vii) capitalized software costs. 25 The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA from the most comparable GAAP measure, net loss, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net loss $ (44,041 ) $ (137,104 ) $ (168,069 ) $ (629,128 ) Add: Depreciation and amortization 8,313 $ 8,266 24,767 23,227 Interest income and other income (expense), net (3,882 ) (7,978 ) (10,334 ) (11,250 ) Benefit (Expense) from income taxes (149 ) 1,122 1,223 3,313 Goodwill impairment 78,894 436,479 Stock-based compensation 10,599 16,899 36,665 59,409 Severance and strategic transformation costs(1) 2,865 1,359 16,821 3,340 Capitalized software costs (4,718 ) (12,690 ) (13,836 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (31,013 ) $ (38,542 ) $ (111,617 ) $ (128,446 ) (1) Severance and strategic transformation costs include expenses associated with the termination of employees and expenses that focus on transforming the strategy of the Companys sales and growth organization as well as our overall cost structure during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include (i) adjusted EBITDA does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future, and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures. Our adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we calculate the measure, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. In evaluating adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to loss before benefit from income taxes, net loss, earnings per share, or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our performance, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. Severance and strategic transformation costs In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, the Company recorded charges of $2.9 million and $16.8 million, respectively, in connection with severance and strategic transformation costs. The Company has executed a series of individual actions designed to maintain or improve our operating results and profitability. The Company continues to evaluate potential actions and may incur additional strategic transformation costs in future periods. Our strategic transformation actions include transformational consulting, headcount reductions, and other related transitional amounts to maintain our competitive footprint. Strategic transformation actions are generally funded within twelve months of initiation and are funded by cash flows from operating activities and existing cash balances. We plan to incur additional strategic transformation costs in order to align our recurring cost structure with our current revenue profile. The timing and amount of the incurrence of such future strategic transformation costs are dependent on market conditions, customer actions and other factors. For further information, see Note 13, "Severance and strategic transformation costs," to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Components of Statement of Operations Revenue The Company has demonstrated the strength of our revenue as a direct result of the continued acceptance of digital care, our penetration of the market, and the successful launch of new or expanded products that enable broadened applications for care delivered virtually. Revenue performance is reflective of the strong foundation that has been built, focused around health plans, health systems, and our provider network. We generate revenues from the use of our enterprise platform and software as a service in the form of recurring subscription fees for use, and related services and Carepoint sales. We also generate revenue from the performance of AMG patient visits. 26 Cost of Revenues, Excluding Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of revenues primarily consist of hosting fees paid to our hosting providers, costs incurred in connection with our professional services, technical and hosting support, and costs for running our affiliated provider network operations team. These costs primarily include employee-related expenses (including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and travel). Cost of revenues are primarily driven by the size of our provider network and the hosting and technical support required to service our clients. Our business model is designed to be scalable and to leverage fixed costs to generate higher revenues. While we currently expect increased investments to support accelerated growth, we also expect increased efficiencies and economies of scale. Our quarterly cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues is expected to fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these aforementioned factors. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software and hardware engineering, information technology infrastructure, security and compliance and product development (inclusive of stock-based compensation for our research and development employees). Research and development expenses also include the periodic outsourcing of similar functions to third party specialists. In prior years, we accelerated the expansion of our enterprise platform volume capacity and the development of additional functionality through new programs and modules. While we have recognized an increase in the research and development expense throughout the prior years, the corresponding future revenue growth is expected to result in lower expenses as a percentage of revenue. This increased spend represents an investment in a more scalable and economically beneficial solution that will properly position the Company to benefit in the long term. We believe the increased spend from the prior years to be temporary. We have made additional investment in the current year mainly for our work in the government space, which we believe will provide an opportunity for revenue growth from both existing and new customers in the coming years. We expect this investment in government space to continue for the majority of 2024 before we realize another decrease in research and development expense run rate. Our research and development expenses may also fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our research and development expenses. We accelerated our multiyear technology investment to accommodate the anticipated significant growth in market demand for increasingly broad and sophisticated digital care enablement infrastructure. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, commissions, travel and stock-based compensation costs for our employees engaged in commercial activities. We will continue to invest appropriately in sales expenses as we look to grow with new prospects and expand the business of our existing clients. We will continue to elevate the skills and impact of our sales personnel and related account management teams as we look to provide a differentiated and enhanced client experience to our growing client base as well as identifying new strategic market opportunities. Marketing costs consist primarily of personnel and related expenses (inclusive of stock-based compensation) for our marketing staff that primarily support the sales organization and client engagement. Marketing costs also include third-party independent research, digital marketing campaigns, participation in trade shows, brand messaging, public relations costs, and the costs of communication materials that are produced to generate awareness and utilization of our enterprise platform and software as a service among our clients and their users. We have made strategic investments in the development of our sales and marketing department focused on internal process improvement and external go to market strategy during the first quarter of 2024. The expense associated with this investment was accelerated into the first quarter of 2024 which we believe better positions the Company to deliver on our strategic plan. We expect our sales and marketing expense to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue in future periods. Our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our advertising and marketing expenses. 27 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel and related expenses, and professional fees incurred by finance, legal, human resources, information technology, our executives, and executive administration staff. They also include stock-based compensation for employees in these departments and expenses related to auditing, consulting, legal, and corporate insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the next several years. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense includes the amortization of intangible assets and depreciation related to our fixed assets. Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, which are customer relationships, contractor relationships, technology and trade names, as well as the amortization of capitalized software costs. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net The balance of interest income and other income (expense), net, consists predominantly of interest income on our money-market and short-term investments. We did not incur material interest expenses in the period as there were no outstanding debts or notes payable. Provision for Income Taxes The income tax provision is primarily due to state and foreign income tax expense. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent management believes it is not more likely than not to be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income. Management makes estimates and judgments about future taxable income based on assumptions that are consistent with our plans and estimates. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth our summarized condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 and the dollar and percentage change between the respective periods: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Change % 2024 2023 Change % Revenue $ 61,046 $ 61,922 $ (876 ) -1 % $ 183,358 $ 188,370 $ (5,012 ) -3 % Costs and operating expenses: Costs of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 38,352 40,457 (2,105 ) (5 )% 118,799 117,453 1,346 1 % Research and development 19,797 27,715 (7,918 ) (29 )% 67,283 79,480 (12,197 ) (15 )% Sales and marketing 16,771 20,379 (3,608 ) (18 )% 60,883 64,659 (3,776 ) (6 )% General and administrative 25,183 29,571 (4,388 ) (15 )% 86,404 102,260 (15,856 ) (16 )% Depreciation and amortization expense 8,313 8,266 47 1 % 24,767 23,227 1,540 7 % Goodwill impairment 78,894 (78,894 ) (100 )% 436,479 (436,479 ) (100 )% Total costs and operating expenses 108,416 205,282 (96,866 ) (47 )% 358,136 823,558 (465,422 ) (57 )% Loss from operations (47,370 ) (143,360 ) 95,990 (67 )% (174,778 ) (635,188 ) 460,410 (72 )% Interest income and other income (expense), net 3,882 7,978 (4,096 ) (51 )% 10,334 11,250 (916 ) (8 )% Loss before expense from income taxes and loss from equity method investment (43,488 ) (135,382 ) 91,894 (68 )% (164,444 ) (623,938 ) 459,494 (74 )% Benefit (Expense) from income taxes 149 (1,122 ) 1,271 (113 )% (1,223 ) (3,313 ) 2,090 (63 )% Loss from equity method investment (702 ) (600 ) (102 ) 17 % (2,402 ) (1,877 ) (525 ) 28 % Net loss (44,041 ) (137,104 ) 93,063 (68 )% (168,069 ) (629,128 ) 461,059 (73 )% Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest (577 ) (690 ) 113 (16 )% (2,580 ) (2,551 ) (29 ) 1 % Net loss attributable to American Well Corporation $ (43,464 ) $ (136,414 ) $ 92,950 (68 )% $ (165,489 ) $ (626,577 ) $ 461,088 (74 )% Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2024, subscription revenue declined $2.2 million due to customer churn during re-platforming. Despite the decrease in total subscription revenue, the Company has successfully expanded our relationship with several key strategic accounts, further supporting the favorable response to the Converge platform. The decrease in subscription revenue was 28 partially offset by an increase in other revenue of $0.9 million primarily related to marketing revenue with one of our strategic customers. There was also a slight increase in visit revenue of $0.5 million due to an increase in special program visits. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, subscription revenue declined $6.5 million due to customer churn during re-platforming, partially offset by growth in our existing strategic clients. Visit revenue remained consistent as the decline in specialty visits was offset by an increase in special program visits. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in other revenue of $1.6 million primarily related to an increase in marketing revenue with one of our strategic customers. Costs of Revenue, Excluding Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets For the three months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in marketing services provided for customers of $2.1 million, and a decrease in employee and provider costs of $0.8 million. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in third party related costs of $0.8 million. The Company's cost savings measures continue to have a positive impact on gross margin. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, the increase in cost of revenue was primarily driven by an increase of $2.1 million related to third party costs, partially due to incentives being fully utilized in the prior year. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in employee and provider costs of $0.6 million. The decrease in gross margin is a result of a temporary shift in revenue mix to lower margin marketing revenue from higher margin subscription revenue. Research and Development Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2024, there was a decrease in employee-related costs of $2.7 million (due to headcount reduction and reduced stock compensation expense). There was also a decrease of $5.0 million in consulting spend as the peak development of the Amwell Converge platform is complete. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, there was a decrease in employee-related costs of $6.3 million (due to headcount reduction and reduced stock compensation expense). There was also a decrease of $5.9 million in consulting spend as the peak development of the Amwell Converge platform is complete. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2024, there was a decrease in employee-related costs of $2.6 million, a decrease in marketing spend of $0.4 million, a decrease in consulting spend of $0.2 million and a decrease in business related travel of $0.2 million, due to headcount reduction and cost savings measures put into place. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease in sales and marketing expense was driven by a decrease in employee-related costs of $4.1 million, a decrease in other consulting spend of $1.1 million, a decrease of $0.8 million in market research, a decrease in business related travel of $0.8 million and a decrease in marketing spend of $0.4 million, due to headcount reduction and cost savings measures put into place. These decreases were partially offset by $3.6 million in non-recurring consulting costs related to organizational strategy initiatives. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease in employee-related costs of $1.1 million. The employee related costs were driven primarily by the decrease in stock compensation expense as higher value historic awards had become fully expensed, as well as headcount reductions. In addition, consulting spend decreased $1.2 million, insurance costs decreased by $0.7 million, third-party software costs decreased by $0.3 million, business related travel decreased by $0.3 million and other taxes and bank fees decreased by $0.3 million, as a result of cost savings measures put into place. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease in general and administrative expense was driven by a decrease in employee-related costs of $14.9 million. The employee related costs were driven primarily by the decrease in stock compensation expense as higher value historic awards had become fully expensed, as well as headcount reductions. In addition, insurance costs decreased by $2.0 million, consulting spend decreased $1.3 million and other taxes and bank fees decreased by $0.8 million. There were also decreases of $0.7 million in business related travel, $0.5 million in third-party software costs and $0.4 million in conference spend. The reduction in spend was due to cost savings measures put into place. These decreases were partially offset by $5.0 million in non-recurring consulting costs related to organizational strategy initiatives. 29 Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation expense remained consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Amortization expense was also consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Depreciation expense declined by $0.3 million due to assets becoming fully depreciated for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Amortization expense increased by $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The increase in amortization was related to the amortization of internally developed software intangible assets. Interest Income and Other (Expense) Income, net For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, interest income and other (expense) income, net consist entirely of interest income and gains from our cash equivalents and short-term investments. Expense from Income Taxes Income tax (benefit) expense was $(0.1) million and $1.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to income tax expense of $1.1 million and $3.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. Loss from Equity Method Investment The Company and Cleveland Clinic partnered to form a joint venture, under the name CCAW, JV LLC, to provide broad access to comprehensive and high acuity care services via virtual care. The Company does not have a controlling financial interest in CCAW, JV LLC, but it does have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of CCAW, JV LLC. Therefore, the Company accounts for its investments in CCAW, JV LLC using the equity method of accounting. During the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company recognized a loss of $0.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as its proportionate share of the joint venture results of operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company recognized a loss of $2.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively, as its proportionate share of the joint venture results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents a summary of our cash flow activity for the periods set forth below: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Net cash used in operating activities $ (113,903 ) $ (106,767 ) Net cash used in investing activities (14,521 ) (113,507 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,383 2,147 Total $ (127,041 ) $ (218,127 ) Sources of Financing Our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $244.6 million and $372.0 million as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively, which were held for a variety of growth initiatives and investments as well as working capital purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of money market funds. As shown in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company incurred a loss from operations of $174.8 million and a net loss of $168.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and had an accumulated deficit of $1,923.3 million as of September 30, 2024. The Company has no debt as of September 30, 2024 or December 31, 2023 and expects to generate operating losses in future periods. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of the financial statements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the scope of our relationship with the Leidos Partnership for Defense Health, contract renewal 30 activity, number of consultations on our enterprise software, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, our expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of digital care services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Nine months ended September 30, 2024, vs. nine months ended September 30, 2023 Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $113.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $168.1 million. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $66.8 million (primarily stock-based compensation of $36.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $24.8 million). The net loss was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology and infrastructure perspective), partially offset by the expansion of business with existing clients. Cash used in operating activities was $106.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The primary driver of this use of cash was our net loss of $629.1 million. The net loss was partially offset by non-cash expenses of $523.1 million (primarily goodwill impairment of $436.5 million, stock-based compensation of $59.6 million and depreciation and amortization of $23.2 million). The net loss, excluding impairment charge, was reflective of the investments made back into the Company (from a technology and infrastructure perspective), partially offset by the overall growth of our business including expansion of business with existing clients. Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $14.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Cash used in investing activities consisted of $12.7 million in capitalized software development costs and $1.7 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture. Cash used in investing activities was $113.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Cash used in investing activities consisted of $13.8 million in capitalized software development costs, $3.9 million investment in the less than majority owned joint venture and purchases of short-term investments of $390.0 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $294.3 million. Cash Provided by Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, was $1.4 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of $1.4 million of proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was $2.1 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of $2.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan, offset by $0.6 in the repurchase of stock to cover tax withholding obligations upon vesting of restricted stock units. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We are therefore not exposed to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in those types of relationships. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of September 30, 2024, there have been no material changes from the contractual obligations and commitments previously disclosed in our Form 10-K. 31 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience, current business factors, and various other assumptions that the Company believes are necessary to consider to form a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic and political factors, and changes in the Companys business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained, and as the Companys operating environment evolves. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2023 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Adopted For more information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements covered under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted For more information on new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements covered under Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Item 3. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk We had cash and cash equivalents totaling $244.6 million, and $372.0 million as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. These amounts were primarily invested in money markets. The Company held no investments as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023. The cash and cash equivalents are held for a variety of growth and investments as well as working capital purposes. We do not believe that an increase or decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates would have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, our cash equivalents are subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectation due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in the value of our money market funds caused by a change in interest rates (gains or losses on the carrying value) are recorded in other income and are realized only if we sell the underlying securities. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk To date, a substantial majority of our revenue from client arrangements has been denominated in U.S. dollars. We have limited operations outside the United States. As of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, the Company has one foreign subsidiary in Israel, the functional currency of that subsidiary is the New Israeli Shekel. In addition the Company has three foreign subsidiaries from the acquisition of SilverCloud, with functional currencies of the Euro, British pound and Australian dollars. The Company also has a branch with a functional currency of the New Israeli Shekel. The transactional activity for these entities in the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 was not considered significant. Accordingly, we believe we do not have a material exposure to foreign currency risk. We may choose to focus on international expansion, which may increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in the future. Inflation Risk We do not believe that inflation had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the last two years. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 32