MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" in this Annual Report. For information on the products of each segment, see "Solar and Semiconductor Equipment Products" and "Polishing Supplies Products" within this "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" section. For information regarding risks to our business, see ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. GROWTH STRATEGY Capitalize on Growth Opportunities in the Solar Industry by Leveraging Our Leading Diffusion Furnace Market Share, Top-Tier Customer Relationships, and Track Record of Technological Innovation. We believe that long-term growth in the solar industry will be driven by several macro-economic factors, such as volatile energy prices, limited non-renewable energy resources, government incentives for solar generated electricity, increasing environmental awareness, energy security concerns and the expected decrease in the cost of solar energy. As the solar market continues to develop, advances in process technology will be vital to remaining competitive. We intend to continue leveraging our leading market position, relationships with leading global solar cell customers and demonstrated track record of technical innovation to maximize sales of our current and next-generation technology solutions. Develop Multi-Product Solutions to Expand Our Addressable Market. We are focused on acquiring, developing and licensing new products across our business in response to customer needs in the solar market. As we add to our product portfolio, we plan to continue expanding our offerings within the solar cell production process, thus capturing a greater percentage of capital spent on building global solar cell manufacturing capacity. Our successful development of PECVD equipment is a recent example of meeting our customers' needs and expanding the size of our addressable market. Pursue Strategic Acquisitions That Complement Our Strong Platform. Over the course of our history, we have developed an acquisition strategy consistent with our focus of maintaining market leadership and a technology roadmap leading to higher efficiency and lower cost solar cells. Based on our acquisition strategy, we continue to evaluate potential technology, product and business acquisitions or joint ventures that are intended to increase our existing market share in the solar, semiconductor and LED industries and expand our addressable market. In evaluating these opportunities, our objectives include: enhancing our earnings and cash flows, adding complementary product offerings, actively expanding our geographic footprint, improving our production efficiency and enhancing our customer base. Contribute to the Solar Industry's Mission of Reaching Grid Parity. We believe next-generation process technology for solar cell manufacturing is the driver to increasing efficiency and lowering manufacturing costs and is key to enabling grid parity, where the cost of solar generated electricity is on parity with traditional, non-renewable sources of energy such as coal and natural gas. Our next-generation solar cell process technology has a demonstrated track record of increasing our customers' solar cell conversion efficiency. We will continue to develop next-generation solar cell manufacturing process technology that will enable our customers to displace non-renewable energy. 4 RECENT ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS In December 2014, the Company expanded our participation in the solar market by acquiring a 51% controlling interest in SoLayTec, based in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, which provides ALD systems used in high efficiency solar cells. The acquisition of the controlling interest in SoLayTec supports our business model of growth through strategic acquisition. In January 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of BTU, a Delaware corporation, pursuant to which BTU became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Amtech acquired all of the outstanding stock of BTU in an all-stock transaction. BTU stockholders received 0.3291 shares of Amtech common stock for every share of BTU stock. The addition of BTU supports our business model of growth through strategic acquisition and continuous innovation. The combination with BTU further positions the Company as a leading, global supplier of solar and semiconductor production and automation systems. The acquisition also further advances our strategy to expand our technology portfolio in adjacent markets and creates a strong platform to drive the growth of our solar business. With the addition of BTU, the Company has a more diversified and profitable revenue base, allowing the Company to better scale production and distribution of our solar technology to meet accelerating demand for next-generation technology solutions. In September 2015, the Company sold a portion of its interest in Kingstone Technology Hong Kong Limited (Kingstone Hong Kong), a partially owned subsidiary of the Company, for $4,000,000 plus the repayment of certain outstanding debt in the amount of approximately $4,000,000. Following the transaction, the Companys interest in Kingstone Hong Kong was reduced from 55% to 15%. Kingstone Hong Kong is the parent company of Shanghai Kingstone Semiconductor Company, Ltd. (Shanghai Kingstone), a Shanghai-based technology company specializing in ion implant solutions for the solar and semiconductor industries. Following the transaction, Kingstone Hong Kong's ownership interest in Shanghai Kingstone was reduced from 100% to 68.75% with the Company owning approximately 10% of Shanghai Kingstone. Proceeds from the sale of shares will be paid to Amtech and used to support the company's core strategic initiatives. SOLAR INDUSTRY We provide process equipment and related cell manufacturing equipment to many of the world's leading solar cell manufacturers. Within process equipment, our primary focus is on our existing solar diffusion furnace and the development of next-generation diffusion furnaces, including our proprietary N-type, PECVD systems. Our N-type technology has been developed through a three-party research collaboration agreement with the Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands, or ECN, a leading solar research center in Europe and Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited, or Yingli, one of the world's leading vertically integrated photovolataic (PV) product manufacturers. In 2012, we launched our PECVD system. Through our acquisition of SoLayTec, we produce, develop, and deliver and service worldwide machines for ultrafast ALD Equipment used in high efficiency solar cells. We also offer furnace automation and wafer handling systems used within the diffusion processing step of solar cell manufacturing. Our automation equipment includes mass wafer transfer systems, sorters, long-boat transfer systems, load station elevators, buffers and conveyers, which we sell both in connection with our diffusion furnaces and on a standalone basis. Most solar cell manufacturers sell their products to manufacturers of solar modules or solar panels. Others are vertically integrated and use their cells in the production of solar modules and panels. Solar cells are the critical component of solar modules and solar panels, which are sold to the end user and used in residential homes, industrial applications, remote pumping, lighting and heating uses and central power stations. Although the solar market has experienced tremendous growth over the past five years, it is characterized by short-term periods of rapid capacity expansion followed by periods of rapid contraction in our customers' capital spending. 5 When actual and expected end-user demand outstrips available capacity, this triggers the beginning of the next period of expansion. SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY We provide diffusion equipment as well as handling, storage and automation equipment and related services to leading semiconductor manufacturers. Our products include horizontal and vertical diffusion furnaces used to produce semiconductors, silicon wafers and MEMS, as well as lapping equipment, polishing templates and wafer insert carriers, mass wafer transfer systems, loaders and sorters. Although the semiconductor market has experienced significant growth over the past fifteen years, it remains cyclical by nature. The market is characterized by short-term periods of under or over utilization of capacity for most semiconductors, including microprocessors, memory, power management chips and other logic devices. When capacity utilization decreases due to the addition of excess capacity, semiconductor manufacturers typically slow their purchasing of capital equipment. Conversely, when capacity utilization increases, so does capital spending. Most semiconductor chips are built on a silicon wafer, and include multiple layers of circuitry that connect a variety of circuit components, such as transistors, capacitors and other components. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers, including insulators. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. These are all referred to as front-end processes. As demand for increasingly sophisticated electronic devices continues; new technologies such as wireless networks, next generation cellular phones and tablets will help to drive future growth. Electronic equipment continues to become more complex, yet end users are still demanding smaller, lighter and less expensive devices. This, in turn, requires increased performance and reduced cost, size, weight and power requirements of electronic assemblies, printed circuit boards and semiconductors. In response to these developments, manufacturers are increasingly employing more sophisticated production and assembly techniques requiring more advanced manufacturing equipment, such as that supplied by BTU. In the printed circuit board assembly process, semiconductor discrete-devices and various other components are attached to printed circuit boards. The attachment process, which creates a permanent physical and electrical bond, is called solder reflow or surface mount reflow. Manufacturers rely on high throughput and highly reliable equipment to get the maximum efficiency in their production process. Die level semiconductor packaging processes include precision thermal processing steps. Advancements in the semiconductor industry toward higher chip speeds, smaller form factors and reduced costs are driving the transition to wafer level packaging from the traditional wire bonding technique. SOLAR AND SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT PRODUCTS Our furnace and automation equipment is manufactured in our facilities in The Netherlands, France, Massachusetts, and China. The following paragraphs describe the products that comprise our solar, semiconductor and electronics assembly equipment business: Horizontal Diffusion Furnaces. Through our subsidiaries, Tempress and Bruce Technologies, we produce and sell horizontal diffusion furnaces. Our horizontal furnaces currently address several steps in the solar and semiconductor manufacturing processes, including diffusion, phosphorus tetrachloride doping, or POCl 3 , boron tribromide, or BBR 3 , low-pressure chemical vapor deposition, or LPCVD, oxidation, and annealing. Our horizontal furnaces generally consist of three large modules: the load station where the loading of the wafers occurs; the furnace section, which is comprised of one to four thermal reactor chambers; and the gas distribution cabinet where the flow of gases into the reactor chambers is controlled, and often customized to meet the requirements of our customers' particular processes. The horizontal furnaces utilize a combination of existing industry and proprietary technologies and are sold primarily to solar customers and semiconductor customers who do not require the advanced automation of, or cannot justify the higher expense of, vertical furnaces for some or all of their diffusion processes. Our models are capable of processing all currently existing wafer sizes. Automation Products - Solar. Our automation technology products are used in several of the diffusion steps and in the anneal processing step of solar cell manufacturing. Our R2D Automation equipment includes mass wafer transfer 6 systems, sorters, long-boat transfer systems, load station elevators, buffers and conveyers. We use a vacuum technology in our Comet Standalone and our Comet Full Automation solar wafer transfer systems designed to ensure high throughput, reduced breakage and thereby increased yield. Plasma-Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition (PECVD). Our solar PECVD product applies an anti-reflective coating to solar wafers; a coating critical to the efficiency of solar cells. PECVD layers are also used for passivation of the front and/or back side of the solar cell. This solar product adds another solar cell processing step to Amtech's offerings. We are exploring next-generation high-efficiency technology and dedicating our efforts to that process development. Atomic Layer Deposition. We produce, develop, deliver and service worldwide machines for ultrafast, spatial (ALD)equipment, a promising technology for ultrathin Al2O3 passivation layers on solar cells. The ALD machines from SoLayTec are intended for industrial production in the solar market. As such, following the acquisition of the majority interest in SoLayTec, the Company is now able to use ALD in the industrial production and solar market due to technology that was previously unavailable to the Company prior to the acquisition due to the very low speed of ALD and the associated high cost. The unique feature of the SoLayTec machines is the breakthrough speed that enables industrial application. Automation Products - Semiconductor. Use of our automation products reduces human handling and, therefore, reduces exposure of wafers to particle sources during the loading and unloading of the process tubes and protects operators from heat and chemical fumes. The top reactor chamber of a horizontal furnace can be as much as eight feet from the floor on which the operator stands when manually loading wafer boats. Typical boats of 150mm to 300mm wafers weigh three to six pounds. Given these two factors, automating the wafer loading and unloading of a diffusion furnace improves employee safety and ergonomics in silicon wafer, solar cell and semiconductor manufacturing facilities. S-300. Our patented S-300 model provides a very efficient method of automatically transporting a full batch of up to 300 wafers to the designated tube level and automatically placing them directly onto the cantilever loader of a diffusion furnace at one time. This product is suitable for the production of nearly all semiconductors manufactured using a horizontal furnace. The S-300 can be used in conjunction with all current wafer sizes and is particularly well suited for manufacturers of 300mm wafers. Comet. Our Comet and Gemini series of wafer transfer systems include a wide range of throughputs and footprints to meet the needs of our customers who serve the semiconductor industry. Comet Sorter with Optical Character Recognition (OCR) is used in sorting, randomizing, compacting or tracking. The Comet Sorter is cassette to cassette with OCR front and back scribe functions, notch alignment and SECSII Gem communication. Comet ID Readers check tag carriers then read each wafer scribe. The Comet ID Reader sends the information to the host with SECSII Gem commands. Small Batch Vertical Furnace. Our small batch, two-tube vertical furnace was developed internally with the active support from a large semiconductor manufacturer and long-term customer. The specifications for this furnace include a two-tube vertical furnace for wafer sizes of up to 200mm, with each tube having a small flat zone capable of processing 25-50 wafers per run. We are targeting niche applications, including research and development, while we continue to develop additional processes, since the competition in the large batch vertical furnace market is intense and our competitors are much larger and have substantially greater financial resources, processing knowledge and advanced technology. Continuous Thermal Processing Systems. Through our recently acquired subsidiary BTU, we produce and sell thermal processing systems used in the solder reflow and curing stages of printed circuit board assembly as well as systems for the thermal processes used in advanced semiconductor packaging. Our printed circuit board assembly products are used primarily in the advanced, high-density segments of the market that utilize surface mount technology. Flip-chip reflow provides the physical and electronic bond of the semiconductor device to its package. Our range of convection reflow systems, utilizing patented closed loop convection technology, rate at up to 400C and operate in air or nitrogen atmospheres. These products utilize impingement technology to transfer heat to the substrate. Using thermal power arrays of five-kilowatt heaters, they can process substrates in dual lane, dual speed configurations, thereby enabling our customers to double production without increasing the machines footprint. These products are available in four models based on the heated lengths of thermal processing chambers. Heated length is based on the required production rate and loading requirements. 7 POLISHING SUPPLIES PRODUCTS O ur polishing supplies division provides solutions to the lapping and polishing marketplace. Lapping is the process of abrading components with a high degree of precision for flatness, parallelism and surface finish. Common applications for this technology are silicon wafers for semiconductor products, sapphire substrates for LED lighting and mobile devices, silicon carbide for LED lighting, various glass and silica components for 3D image transmission, quartz and ceramic components for telecommunications devices, medical device components and computer hard disks. We manufacture the products described below in Pennsylvania and sell them under our PR Hoffman brand name. Wafer Carriers . Carriers are work holders into which silicon and sapphire wafers or other materials are inserted for the purpose of holding them securely in place during the lapping and polishing processes. We produce carriers for our line of lapping and polishing machines, as well as for those machines sold by our competitors. Substantially all of the carriers we produce are customized for specific applications. Insert carriers, our most significant category of carriers, contain plastic inserts molded onto the inside edge of the work-holes of the carrier, which hold the wafers in place during processing. Although our standard steel carriers are preferred in many applications because of their durability, rigidity and precise dimensions, they are typically not suited for applications involving softer materials or when metal contamination is an issue. Insert carriers, however, are well suited for processing large semiconductor wafers, up to 450mm in diameter, and other fragile materials or where contamination is an issue, because they provide the advantages of steel carriers while reducing the potential for damage to the edges of such sensitive materials. Our insert carriers are used for double-sided lapping or polishing of wafers up to 450mm in diameter. Semiconductor Polishing Templates . Our polishing templates are used to securely hold sapphire or other wafer materials in place during single-sided polishing processes. Polishing templates are customized for specific applications and are manufactured to exacting tolerances. We manufacture polishing templates for most brands of tools and various processes. In addition to silicon wafers, these products are used in polishing silicon carbide wafers and sapphire crystals used in LEDs as well as mobile communication devices. Double-Sided Planetary Lapping and Polishing Machines . Double-sided lapping and polishing machines are designed to process thin and fragile materials, such as semiconductor, sapphire and other wafer-like materials, precision optics, computer disk media and ceramic components for wireless communication devices, to exact tolerances of thickness, flatness, parallelism and surface finish. On average, we believe that we offer our surface processing systems with a lower cost of ownership than systems offered by our competitors. We target the LED, mobile device, semiconductor, optics, quartz, ceramics, medical, computer disk and metal working markets. MANUFACTURING, RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES Our solar, semiconductor and electronics assembly equipment manufacturing activities consist primarily of engineering design to meet specific and evolving customer needs, and procurement and assembly of various commercial and proprietary components into finished thermal processing systems and related automation in Vaassen, The Netherlands, Clapiers, France, North Billerica, Massachusetts, and Shanghai, China. Our manufacturing activities in the polishing supplies and equipment business include laser-cutting and other fabrication steps in producing lapping and polishing consumables, including carriers, templates, gears, wear items and spare parts in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, from raw materials manufactured to our specifications by our suppliers. These products are engineered and designed for specific applications and to meet the increasingly tight tolerances required by our customers. Many items, such as proprietary components for our solar and semiconductor equipment and lapping plates, are also purchased from suppliers who manufacture these items to our specifications. Final assembly and tests of our equipment and machines are performed within our manufacturing facilities. Quality control is maintained through inspection of incoming materials and components, in-process inspection during equipment assembly, testing of assemblies and final inspection and, when practical, operation of manufactured equipment prior to shipment. Since much of our polishing supplies know-how relates to the manufacture of its products, this business' facility is equipped to perform a significantly higher percentage of the fabrication steps required in the production of its products. However, injection molding for our insert carriers and the manufacture of raw cast iron plates are subcontracted out to 8 various third parties. Our polishing supplies business relies on key suppliers for certain materials, including two steel mills in Germany and Japan, an injection molder, a single-sourced pad supplier from Japan and an adhesive manufacturer. To minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts, we maintain appropriate inventories of key raw materials and parts. If for any reason we were unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet our production requirements, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING The markets we serve are characterized by evolving industry standards and rapid technological change. To compete effectively in our markets, we must continually maintain or exceed the pace of such change by improving our products and our process technologies and by developing new technologies and products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance. To assure that these technologies and products address current and future customer requirements, we obtain as much customer cooperation and input as possible, thus increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our research and development efforts. In addition, we look for strategic acquisitions, such as the acquisition of SoLayTec, which will provide us with new technologies to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. From time to time we add functionality to our products or develop new products during engineering and manufacturing to fulfill specifications in a customer's order, in which case the cost of development, along with other costs of the order, are charged to cost of sales. We periodically receive research grants for research and development of products, which are netted against our research and development costs. Our expenditures (net of grants earned) that have been accounted for as research and development were $6.9 million (7% of net revenue) for fiscal 2015, $6.3 million (11% of net revenue) for fiscal 2014, and $6.6 million (19.0% of net revenue) for fiscal 2013. 9 PATENTS The following table shows our material patents, the patents licensed by us, and the expiration date of each patent and license: Product Countries Expiration Date or Pending Approval Multiple methods for manufacturing a solar cell and related equipment Various Various Method for manufacturing a solar cell; N-type cells with reverse flow and metal wrap-through Netherlands 2032 Method for manufacturing a solar cell; N-type cells with reverse flow and metal wrap-through United States 2033 Wafer boat loader assembly, furnace system, use thereof and method for operating said assembly Netherlands Pending IBAL Model S-300 United States Various Gas-bearing-based Atomic Layer Deposition (ALD) Europe 2028 Carrier-less gas bearing ALD Europe 2029 Reciprocal and helical-scan multi-nozzle ALD configurations Europe 2030 Ultrafast gas bearing-based reactive ion etching Europe 2030 Contactless ALD patterning process Europe 2030 Maskless patterned fast ALD Europe 2030 Thermal processing system having slot eductors United States 2027 Thermal reactor United States Pending Plasma generation and processing with multiple radiation sources United States 2024 Plasma catalyst United States 2026 Process for solid oxide fuel cell manufacture United States 2025 Lapping Machine adjustable mechanism United States 2027 To the best of our knowledge, there are currently no pending lawsuits against us regarding infringement of any existing patents or other intellectual property rights or any material unresolved claims made by third parties that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of such third parties. SALES AND MARKETING Due to the highly technical nature of our products, we market our products primarily by direct customer contact through our sales personnel and through a network of domestic and international independent sales representatives and distributors that specialize in solar and semiconductor equipment and supplies. Our promotional activities include direct sales contacts, participation in trade shows, an internet website, advertising in trade magazines and the distribution of product brochures. Through the acquisition of BTU, we have expanded our global sales and support infrastructure contributing to our competitive position. Sales to distributors are generally on terms comparable to sales to end user customers, as our distributors generally quote their customers after first obtaining a quote from us and have an order from the end-user before placing an order with us. Our sales to distributors are not contingent on their future sales and do not include a general right of return. Historically, returns have been rare. Distributors of our solar and semiconductor equipment do not stock a significant amount of our products, as the inventory they do hold is primarily limited to parts needed to provide timely repairs to the customer. Payment terms of our parts, service and retrofit sales are generally net 30 days. The payment terms of equipment or systems sales vary depending on the size of the order and the size, reputation and creditworthiness of the customer. As a result, the financial terms of equipment sales can range from 80% due 30 days after shipment and 20% due 30 days after acceptance, to requiring a customer deposit 30 days after order placement, a portion due 30 days after shipment 10 and the balance due 30 days after acceptance. Letters of credit are required of certain customers depending on the size of the order, creditworthiness of the customer and the customer's country of domicile. During fiscal 2015, 74% of our net revenue came from customers outside of North America. This group represented 79% of revenues in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, net revenue was distributed among customers in different geographic regions as follows: North/South America 26% (24% of which is in the United States), Asia 60% (including 26% to China 13% to Malaysia and 13% to Taiwan) and Europe 14%. In fiscal 2015, two customers individually accounted for 15% and 11% of net revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2014, two customers individually accounted for 18% and 11% of net revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2013, one customer accounted for 20% of net revenue. Our business is not seasonal in nature, but is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of solar cell and semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including capacity utilization, anticipated demand, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. See "Part 1 Financial Information, Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements, Footnote 9 Geographic Regions" for information regarding our net long-lived assets. COMPETITION We compete in several distinct equipment markets for solar cells, semiconductor devices, semiconductor wafers, MEMS, electronics assembly, and the market for lapping and polishing machines and supplies used in the LED, mobile devices and semiconductor markets. Each of these markets is highly competitive. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to continually improve our products, processes and services, as well as our ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in these markets include the product's technical capability, productivity and cost-effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control and the level of technical service and support. The Solar Cell, Semiconductor Device, and MEMS Markets . Our thermal processing equipment and automation primarily compete with those produced by other original equipment manufacturers, some of which are well-established firms that are much larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we have. Some of our competitors have a diversified product line, making it difficult to quantify their sales of products that compete directly with our products. Competitors of our horizontal diffusion furnaces include Centrotherm GmbH, Koyo Systems Co. Ltd., Sandvik Thermal Process, Inc., a subsidiary of Sandvik AB, 48th Institute, Sevenstar Electronics, CVD Equipment, Inc., Semco Engineering S.A., S.C New Energy and Expertech, Inc. We are experiencing increased competition from local Chinese equipment manufacturers, including 48th Institute, S.C New Energy and Sevenstar Electronics, which may receive varying levels of financial support from the Chinese government. Our primary competitive advantages over such local manufacturers include our automation and higher-efficiency solar cell production technologies which we develop in collaboration with customers and research institutes. Also, our furnaces and lapping and polishing machines face, to a limited extent, competition from equipment on the low-end of the price spectrum. Our principal competitors for printed circuit board assembly equipment and advanced semiconductor packaging vary by product application. The principal competitors for solder reflow systems are Vitronics-Soltec, Heller, Folungwin, ERSA, and Rehm. The principal competitors for advanced semiconductor packaging are Vitronics-Soltec and Heller. Our in-line, controlled atmosphere furnaces compete primarily against products offered by Centrotherm, and SierraTherm/Schmid Thermal Systems. We also face competition from emerging low cost Asian manufacturers and other established European manufacturers. Although price is a factor in buying decisions, we believe that technological leadership, process capability, throughput, environmental safeguards, uptime, mean time-to-repair, cost of ownership and after-sale support have become increasingly important factors. We compete primarily on the basis of these criteria, rather than on the basis of price alone. General Industrial Lapping and Polishing Machines, Supplies and Semiconductor Wafer Markets . We experience price competition for wafer carriers produced by foreign manufacturers for which there is very little publicly available information. As a result, we are intensifying our efforts to reduce the cost of our carriers and will continue to compete with other manufacturers of carriers by continuing to update our product line to keep pace with the rapid changes in our customers' requirements and by providing a high level of quality and customer service. We produce steel carriers, including insert carriers, on an advanced laser-cutting tool, which reduces our costs and lead times and increases our control over quality. Competitors of our lapping and polishing machines and supplies include Peter Wolters and Speedfam, Lapmaster International, LLC, Hamai Co., Ltd., Onse, Inc. and Eminess Technologies, Inc. Our strategy 11 to enhance our sales of wafer carriers includes developing additional niche markets for templates and providing a high level of customer support and products at a lower cost than our competitors. EMPLOYEES As of September 30, 2015, we employed 503 people. Of these employees, 15 were based at our corporate offices in Tempe, Arizona, 37 at our manufacturing plant in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, 90 at our manufacturing plants in N. Billerica, Massachusetts, 130 at our combined facilities in The Netherlands, 158 at our combined facilities in China, 13 at other Asia-Pacific offices, 53 at our facilities in France, and 7 at our office in the U.K . Of the 37 people employed at our Carlisle, Pennsylvania facility, 21 were represented by the United Auto Workers Union - Local 1443. We have never experienced a work stoppage or strike, and other than employees at the Carlisle facility, no other employees are represented by a union. We consider our employee relations to be good. ENVIRONMENTAL EPA Accrual - As a result of the acquisition of BTU, the Company assumed BTUs proportional responsibility for clean-up costs at a Superfund site. As an equipment manufacturer, BTU generated and disposed of small quantities of solid waste that were considered hazardous under Environment Protection Agency (EPA) regulations. Because BTU historically used a waste disposal firm that disposed of the solid waste at a site that the EPA designated as a Superfund site, BTU was named by the EPA as one of the entities responsible for a portion of the expected clean-up costs. Based on the Company's proportional responsibility, as negotiated with and agreed to by the EPA, the Company's liability related to this matter is $0.2 million. As of September 30, 2015, the remaining liability is $0.2 million, which is included in Other Accrued Liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2015. In 2009, in accordance with the settlement agreement with the EPA, BTU established a letter of credit for $0.2 million for the benefit of the EPA to secure potential cash payments as part of BTU's settlement of their proportional liability. CORPORATE INFORMATION We were incorporated in Arizona in October 1981, under the name Quartz Engineering & Materials, Inc. We changed to our present name in 1987. We conduct operations through five wholly-owned subsidiaries: Tempress Systems, Inc., or Tempress, a Texas corporation with all of its operations in Vaassen, The Netherlands, acquired in 1994 and subsequently reincorporated in The Netherlands; P.R. Hoffman Machine Products, Inc., or P.R. Hoffman, an Arizona corporation based in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, acquired in July 1997; Bruce Technologies, Inc., or Bruce Technologies, a Massachusetts corporation based in North Billerica, Massachusetts, acquired in July 2004; R2D Automation SAS, or R2D, a French corporation located near Montpellier, France, acquired in October 2007; BTU International, Inc., a Delaware corporation based in North Billerica, Massachusetts, acquired in January 2015. In addition, we acquired a majority ownership of SoLayTec B.V., a private company based in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. We also own a 15% interest in Kingstone Hong Kong (which effectively represents a 10% beneficial ownership interest in the Shanghai operating entity, Shanghai Kingstone). AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our internet website address is www.amtechsystems.com. Through our website, we make available, without charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The information found on our website, or information that may be accessed through links on our website, are not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition, our SEC filings are available at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information and risks set forth herein. 12 Risks Related to our Business and Industry. The ongoing volatility of the solar and semiconductor equipment industry may negatively impact our business and results of operations and our corresponding ability to efficiently budget our expenses. The solar and semiconductor equipment industries are highly cyclical. As such, demand for, and the profitability of, our products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to: changes in global and regional economic conditions; changes in capacity utilization and production volume of manufacturers of solar cells, semiconductors, silicon wafers and MEMS; the profitability and capital resources of those manufacturers tariff and international trade barriers, including without limitation unfair trade proceedings against solar PV manufacturers in China challenges associated with marketing and selling manufacturing equipment and services to a diverse and diffuse customer base; the financial condition of solar PV customers and their access to affordable financing and capital; and the shift of solar and semiconductor production to Asia, where there often is increased price competition. For these and other reasons, our results of operations for past periods may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Since our business has historically been subject to cyclical industry conditions, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly new orders and net revenue, both within and across years. Demand for solar, semiconductor and silicon wafer manufacturing equipment and related consumable products has also been volatile as a result of sudden changes in solar and semiconductor supply and demand and other factors in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Our orders tend to be more volatile than our revenue, as any change in demand is reflected immediately in orders booked, which are net of cancellations, while revenue tends to be recognized over multiple quarters as a result of procurement and production lead times and the deferral of certain revenue under our revenue recognition policies. Customer delivery schedules on large system orders can also add to this volatility since we generally recognize revenue for new product sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. As a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new product revenue is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on their capacity utilization, which changes when new facilities are put into production, and with the level of demand for solar cells and semiconductors. Purchasing decisions are also impacted by changes in the economies of the countries which our customers serve, as well as the state of the worldwide solar and semiconductor industries. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are difficult to predict. The cyclical nature of our marketplace affects our ability to accurately budget our expense levels, which are based in part on our projections of future revenue. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results are adversely affected. Cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to make timely adjustments to our cost and expense structure to correspond to the prevailing market conditions; effectively manage the supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand, which may require additional liquidity. We can provide no assurance that we can timely and effectively respond to the industry cycles. Our failure to timely and effectively respond to these cyclical changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. A significant portion of the Company's business is to supply the solar market, which, in addition to the general industry changes described above, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the solar industry, including: 13 the varying energy policies of governments around the world and their influence on the rate of growth of the solar PV market, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power such as tax credits, feed-in tariffs, rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources, and goals for solar installations on government facilities; the need to continually decrease the cost-per-watt of electricity produced by solar PV products to or below competing sources of energy by, among other things, reducing operating costs and increasing throughputs for solar PV manufacturing, and improving the conversion efficiency of solar PV; the impact on demand for solar PV products arising from the cost of electricity generated by solar PV compared to the cost of electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources; the growing number of solar PV manufacturers and increasing global production capacity for solar PV, primarily in China as a result of increased solar subsidies and lower manufacturing costs; tariff and international trade barriers, including without limitation such barriers arising from any trade tensions between the United States and China and potential retaliatory actions; the varying levels of operating and industry experience among solar PV manufacturers and the resulting differences in the nature and extent of customer support services requested from the Company; challenges associated with marketing and selling manufacturing equipment and services to a diverse and diffuse customer base; the cost of polysilicon and other materials; access to affordable financing and capital by customers and end-users; and an increasing number of local equipment and parts suppliers based in Asia with certain cost and other advantages over suppliers from outside Asia. In addition, current projections for global solar PV production exceed anticipated near-term end-use demand, which is heavily dependent on installed cost-per-watt, government policies and incentives, and the availability of affordable capital. An oversupply of solar PV may lead customers to delay or reduce investments in manufacturing capacity and new technology, and adversely impact the sales and/or profitability of our products. If the Company does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The solar and semiconductor equipment industries are competitive and because we are relatively small in size and have fewer resources compared to our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully in these markets. Some of our competitors are diversified companies having substantially greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer often at a lower price than ours and use innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. Furthermore, we face competition from Chinese equipment manufacturers, including 48th Institute and Sevenstar Electronics, which may receive greater support from Chinese customers and governmental agencies because they are locally based. Loss of competitive position could impair our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share, any of which would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. There is a risk that larger, better-financed competitors will develop and market more advanced products than those that we currently offer, or that competitors with greater financial resources may decrease prices thereby putting us under financial pressure. The occurrence of any of these events could have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. Our reliance on sales to a few major customers and granting credit to those customers places us at financial risk. We currently sell to a relatively small number of customers, and we expect our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future. Our operating results, therefore, depend on the ability of these customers to sell products that require our equipment in their manufacture. Many of our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and certain customers are in their early stages of development. The loss of sales to any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. 14 Our agreements with these customers may be canceled if we fail to meet certain product specifications, materially breach the agreement, or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future nor that these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with other customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. As of September 30, 2015, no single customer represented greater than 10% of accounts receivable. As of September 30, 2014, two customers individually represented 14% and 10% of accounts receivable. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our customers that purchase large systems could have a material impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. A concentration of our receivables from one or a small number of customers places us at risk. We attempt to manage this credit risk by performing credit checks, by requiring significant partial payments prior to shipment where appropriate and by actively monitoring collections. We also require letters of credit from certain customers depending on the size of the order, type of customer or its creditworthiness and its country of domicile. Our major customers may seek, and on occasion, may receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to the Company. If any one or more of our major customers does not pay us or continue business with us, it could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If any of our customers cancels or fails to accept a large system order, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our backlog includes orders for large systems, such as our diffusion furnaces, with system prices of up to and in excess of $1.0 million, depending on the system configuration, options and any special requirements of the customer. Because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from completing these orders. Our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected should any large systems order be canceled prior to shipment, or not be accepted by the customer. Cancellations may result in inventory that we may not be able to sell or reuse if those products have been tailored for a specific customer's requirements and cannot then be sold without significant incremental cost. We have experienced cancellations in the past. We cannot provide any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from our backlog or for which period net revenue will be recognized, if ever. Because we depend on revenue from international customers, our business may be adversely affected by changes in the economies and policies of the countries or regions in which we do business. During fiscal 2014, 79% of our net revenue came from customers outside of North America. During fiscal 2015, 74% of our net revenue came from customers outside of North America as follows: Asia - 60% (including China - 26%, Malaysia 13% and Taiwan - 13%); and Europe 14% (including Germany - 5%). Each region in the global solar and semiconductor equipment markets exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Our business and results of operations could be negatively affected by periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues and political, social and military instability in countries such as China, India, South Korea, Taiwan and possibly elsewhere. In addition, we face competition from a number of suppliers based in Asia that have certain advantages over suppliers from outside of Asia. These advantages include lower operating, shipping and regulatory costs, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and other government policies that favor local suppliers. Additionally, the marketing and sale of our products to international markets expose us to a number of risks, including, but not limited, to: increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand the local markets and follow their trends and customs, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; the availability of advance payments made by our customers; difficulty in providing customer service and support in these markets; difficulty in staffing and managing overseas operations; longer sales cycles and time collection periods; 15 fewer or weaker legal protections for our intellectual property rights; failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; difficulty and costs relating to compliance with the different or changing commercial and legal requirements of our overseas markets; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates, particularly in Asia and Europe; longer sales cycles and time collection periods; fewer or weaker legal protections for our intellectual property rights; failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products or services in these markets; and international trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses. Our business may be adversely affected by significant exchange rate fluctuations and changes in foreign laws Our net foreign currency transaction gains or losses were gains of $0.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 and less than $0.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. While our business generally has not been materially affected in the past by currency fluctuations, there is a risk that it may be materially adversely affected in the future, especially as we continue to expand operations into other countries. Such risk includes possible losses due to currency exchange rate fluctuations, possible future prohibitions against repatriation of earnings, or proceeds from disposition of investments. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tempress Systems, has conducted its operations in The Netherlands since 1995. In October 2007, we completed our acquisition of R2D, a French company. In December 2014, we acquired SoLayTec with operations in the Netherlands. BTU International, acquired in January 2015, has substantial operations in Shanghai, China. As a result of these acquisitions in Europe and Asia, the risk associated with foreign currency translation gains and losses has increased. Operations of these companies are subject to the taxation policies, employment and labor laws, transportation regulations, import and export regulations and tariffs, possible foreign exchange restrictions and international monetary fluctuations. Changes in such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and costs. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws or violations of our internal policies designed to ensure ethical business practices. We are exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy. Uncertain global economic conditions and slowing growth in China, Europe and the United States, along with difficulties in the financial markets, national debt concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, pose challenges to the industries in which we operate. Economic uncertainty and related factors, including unemployment, inflation and fuel prices, exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or services. This may, in turn, reduce our net sales, reduce backlog, and affect our ability to convert backlog to sales. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory or bad debt expense for us. These conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, impairing their ability to deliver parts and potentially causing delays or added costs for delivery of our products. In addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, and/or modify our business model, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. If we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Natural disasters, outbursts of infectious diseases, terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenue, costs and stock price. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events, or outbreaks of infectious diseases may severely affect our operations or those of our suppliers and customers. Such catastrophic events or future disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response or connection to them, including potential future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual military conflicts or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign customers or suppliers of parts, components and subassemblies, may negatively impact our operations by causing, among other things, delays or losses in the delivery of supplies or finished goods and decreased sales of our products. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the worldwide financial markets and economy. They could also result in economic recession. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. If demand declines for horizontal diffusion furnaces and related equipment, or for other solar industry products, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The revenue of our solar equipment business is comprised primarily of sales of horizontal diffusion furnaces and our automation products. Our automation products are useable almost exclusively with horizontal diffusion furnaces. A significant part of our growth strategy involves expanding our sales to the solar industry. The solar industry is subject to risks relating to industry shortages of polysilicon, (which we discuss further herein), the continuation of government incentives, the availability of specialized capital equipment, global energy prices and rapidly changing technologies offering alternative energy sources and manufacturing processes. If the demand for solar industry products declines, the demand by the solar industry for our products would also decline and our financial position and results of operations would be harmed. There is a trend in the semiconductor industry, related to the trend to produce smaller chips on larger wafers, towards the use in semiconductor manufacturing facilities of newer technology, such as vertical diffusion furnaces. Vertical diffusion furnaces are more efficient than horizontal diffusion furnaces in certain manufacturing processes for smaller chips on larger wafers. To the extent that the trend to use vertical diffusion furnaces over horizontal diffusion furnaces continues, our revenue may decline and our corresponding ability to generate income may be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage the business successfully through severe business cycles. We may be unable to successfully expand or contract our business to meet fluctuating demands. Market fluctuations place significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. In fiscal years 2010 and 2011, we purchased additional equipment and real estate to significantly expand our manufacturing capacity and hired additional employees to support an increase in manufacturing, field service, research and development and sales and marketing efforts. During fiscal years 2012 through 2015, the rapid decline in demand has caused us to reduce headcount in manufacturing and field service and to reduce certain research and development costs. To successfully manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: maintain the appropriate number and mix of permanent, part-time, temporary and contract employees to meet the fluctuating demand for our products; train, integrate and manage personnel, particularly process engineers, field service engineers, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel to maintain and improve skills and morale; leverage our expanded global sales and service presence through the acquisition of BTU International retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; continue to enhance our customer resource and manufacturing management systems to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction and efficiencies, including inventory control; implement and improve existing and new administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls; expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapidly changing cycles. If we are unable to manage these cycles effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new technologies for the production of solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. 17 If governmental subsidies decline or if demand for solar energy declines, our Company may not be able to continue making substantial investments in our organization to develop new products for the solar industry which may have a material adverse effect on our business. The solar energy sector is dependent upon governmental subsidies, some of which have been scaled back and are not guaranteed to continue. A further decline in these subsidies could reduce our ability to make investments in our Company and grow our business in this market. The solar industry is currently facing overcapacity in production. This overcapacity has a significant adverse impact on the demand for the capital equipment we supply to this industry. As a result of these risks there is no assurance that we will realize a return on these investments which may have a material effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel for our business and product development and sales, and any loss of our key personnel to competitors or other industries could dramatically impact our ability to continue operations. Historically, our product development has been accomplished through cooperative efforts with key customers. Our relationships with some customers are substantially dependent on personal relations and other contacts established by either our Executive Chairman or our President and Chief Executive Officer. Our relationships with major European customers that are strategically important to the development and testing of our N-type technology solar diffusion furnace and PECVD equipment are substantially dependent upon our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Fokko Pentinga. While there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue, such cooperation is expected to continue to be a significant element in our future development efforts. Furthermore, it may not be feasible for any successor to maintain the same business relationships that our Executive Chairman, Mr. J.S. Whang, has established. Even though we are the beneficiary of life insurance policies on the life of Mr. Whang, in the amount of $2.0 million, there is no assurance that such amount will be sufficient to cover the cost of finding and hiring a suitable replacement for Mr. Whang. If we were to lose the services of either Mr. Whang or Mr. Pentinga for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also depend on the management efforts of our officers and other key personnel and on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. During times of strong economic growth, competition is intense for highly skilled employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel or that we can avoid increased costs in order to do so. There can be no assurance that employees will not leave Amtech or compete against us. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees, or to retain the services of key personnel, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid change in the technology needed to meet customer requirements. Success in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. For example, the solar industry continues to develop new technologies to increase the efficiencies and lower the costs of solar cells. Also, the semiconductor industry continues to shrink the size of semiconductor devices. These and other evolving customer needs require us to continually respond with new product developments. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. Our future business success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, or new uses for existing products, that successfully address changing customer needs and win market acceptance. We must also manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. To realize future growth through technical innovations in the solar and semiconductor industries, we must either acquire the technology through product development, merger and acquisition activity or through the licensing of products from our technology partners. Potential disruptive technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business if we do not successfully develop and introduce new products, technologies or uses for existing products in a timely manner and continually find ways of reducing the cost to produce them in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements. Acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert management's attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other risks associated with acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and consider acquisitions an important part of our future growth strategy. In the past, we have made acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with synergistic products, 18 services and technologies and plan to continue to do so in the future. Acquisitions, including our acquisition of R2D, SoLayTec and BTU, involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of geographically diverse personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; diversion of management's attention from other operational matters; the potential loss of our key employees and the key employees of acquired companies; the potential loss of our key customers and suppliers and the key customers and suppliers of acquired companies; disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; our inability to achieve the intended cost efficiency, level of profitability or other intended strategic goals for the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances; lack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; the risk that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger could be dilutive to our shareholders, if anticipated synergies are not realized; acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company; inability to complete proposed transactions as anticipated or at all and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee and any other associated transaction expenses; the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; potential changes in our credit rating, which could adversely impact the Companys access to and cost of capital; potential litigation brought against the Company that may arise in connection with an acquisition; reductions in cash balances and/or increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes; inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal financial controls, disclosure