Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1, Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report) and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain information contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report is forward-looking in nature. All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report or made by management of Amtech Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or Amtech), other than statements of historical fact, are hereby identified as forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report relate only to events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this Quarterly Report. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding Amtechs future financial results, operating results, business strategies, projected costs, products under development, competitive positions and plans and objectives of the Company and its management for future operations. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, would, expects, plans, anticipates, intends, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, among others, future economic conditions, including changes in the markets in which we operate; changes in demand for our services and products; our ability to successfully complete the turnkey orders and the associated costs and risks related thereto; difficulties in successfully executing our growth initiatives; the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate, including the adverse impact of competitive product announcements or new entrants into our markets and transfers of resources by competitors into our markets; control of costs and expenses; risks associated with new technologies and the impact on our business; legislative, regulatory, and competitive developments in markets in which we operate; possible future claims, litigation or enforcement actions and the results of any such claim, litigation proceeding, or enforcement action; and other circumstances and risks identified in this Quarterly Report or referenced from time to time in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. These and many other factors could affect Amtechs future operating results and financial condition, and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Amtech or on its behalf. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Achievement of future results is subject to events out of our control, risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, that we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the year-ended September 30, 2017 listed various important factors that could affect Amtechs future operating results and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results and expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Amtech or on its behalf. These factors can be found under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, and investors should refer to them as well as the additional risk factors identified in this Quarterly Report. Because it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, any such list cannot be considered a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Introduction Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to facilitate an understanding of our business and results of operations. MD&A consists of the following sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations Critical Accounting Policies Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 13 Table of Contents Overview We operate in three reportable business segments: (i) Solar, (ii) Semiconductor and (iii) Polishing. In our Solar segment, we are a leading global supplier of thermal processing systems, including diffusion, plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD), atomic layer deposition (ALD), and related automation, parts and services, to the solar photovoltaic industry. In our Semiconductor segment, we supply thermal processing equipment, including solder reflow equipment and related controls and diffusion for use by leading semiconductor manufacturers, and in electronics assembly for automotive and other industries. In our Polishing segment, we produce consumables and machinery for lapping (fine abrading) and polishing of materials, such as sapphire substrates, optical components, silicon wafers, numerous types of crystalline materials, ceramics and metal components. Our customers are primarily manufacturers of solar cells and integrated circuits. The solar cell and semiconductor industries are cyclical and historically have experienced significant fluctuations. Our revenue is impacted by these broad industry trends. The solar cell industry has experienced a structural imbalance between supply and demand. This imbalance has increased competitive pressure on selling prices and negatively impacted our results of operations. Our high throughput equipment platforms, technologies for higher cell efficiency, greater knowledge of the complete cell manufacturing process and advanced automation have contributed significantly to our success in securing the large orders for the first two phases of a multi-phase turnkey project announced in January and April of 2017 from a new solar cell manufacturer in China. For equipment orders that are not part of turnkey projects, we compete with Chinese equipment manufacturers that offer lower prices coupled with liberal payment terms. We are finding it more difficult to participate in the capacity expansions of those Chinese companies that already have significant experience with all facets of producing solar cells and at least some prior experience working with the local equipment vendors. While we will continue to focus on developing advanced products and technologies, we plan to seek further cost reductions to address the competition from Chinese equipment vendors. The equipment for the large follow-on turnkey order announced in April 2017 (Phase II) shipped in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Our quarterly and annual operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by the timing of large system orders. Further, the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are highly cyclical and the conditions of the industries we operate in are volatile. Therefore, our order flow fluctuates quarter to quarter. For additional information regarding the risks related to our business and industry, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of sales 72 % 71 % Gross margin 28 % 29 % Selling, general and administrative 14 % 24 % Research, development and engineering 3 % 6 % Operating income (loss) 11 % (1 )% Gain on sale of other assets 0 % 0 % Income (loss) from equity method investment 0 % 0 % Interest expense and other income, net 0 % 0 % Income (loss) before income taxes 11 % (1 )% Income taxes provision 2 % 0 % Net income (loss) 9 % (1 )% Add: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 0 % 1 % Net income (loss) attributable to Amtech Systems, Inc. 9 % 0 % 14 Table of Contents Net Revenue Net revenue consists of revenue recognized upon shipment or installation of equipment, with the exception of products using new technology, for which revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance. Spare parts sales are recognized upon shipment and service revenue is recognized upon completion of the service activity, which is generally ratable over the term of the service contract. Since the majority of our revenue is generated from large system sales, revenue and operating income can be significantly impacted by the timing of system shipments, and recognition of revenue based on customer acceptances. The revenue of business units included in the Solar segment include some sales of equipment and parts to the semiconductor, silicon wafer and microelectromechanical (MEMS) industries, comprising less than 25% of the Solar segment revenue. Our net revenue by operating segment was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2017 2016 Incr (Decr) % Change Solar $ 49,197 $ 11,424 $ 37,773 331% Semiconductor 20,891 15,703 5,188 33% Polishing 3,523 2,008 1,515 75% Total net revenue $ 73,611 $ 29,135 $ 44,476 153% Net revenue for the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $73.6 million and $29.1 million , respectively, an increase of $44.5 million or 153% . Revenue from the Solar segment increased 331% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to shipments relating to Phase II of the turnkey order, previously announced in April 2017. Revenue from the Semiconductor segment increased 33% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to strong customer demand for our thermal processing systems and diffusion furnaces. Revenue from the Polishing segment increased 75% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to strong customer demand leading to increased sales of polishing templates and equipment. Backlog and Orders Our backlog as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $ 65.9 million and $ 51.5 million , respectively, an increase of $ 14.4 million or 28% . Our backlog as of December 31, 2017 includes approximately $ 39.3 million of orders and deferred revenue from our Solar segment customers compared to $ 35.8 million at December 31, 2016 . New orders booked in the quarter ended December 31, 2017 were $ 37.3 million ($ 7.3 million Solar) compared to $ 34.7 million ($ 15.9 million Solar) of customer orders in the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . The backlog of business units included in the Solar segment include some sales of equipment and parts to the semiconductor, silicon wafer and MEMS industries, comprising less than 25% of the Solar segment backlog. As of December 31, 2017 , two customers individually accounted for 19% and 10% of our backlog. The orders included in our backlog are generally credit approved customer purchase orders believed to be firm and are generally expected to ship within the next twelve months. Because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize profit from completing these orders. Our backlog also includes revenue deferred pursuant to our revenue recognition policy, derived from orders that have already been shipped, but which have not met the criteria for revenue recognition. 15 Table of Contents Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is the difference between net revenue and cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists of purchased material, labor and overhead to manufacture equipment and spare parts and the cost of service and support to customers for installation, warranty and paid service calls. Gross margin is gross profit as a percent of net revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin by operating segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2017 Gross Margin 2016 Gross Margin Incr (Decr) Solar $ 11,313 23% $ 1,611 14% $ 9,702 Semiconductor 7,488 36% 6,095 39% 1,393 Polishing 1,536 44% 737 37% 799 Total gross profit $ 20,337 28% $ 8,443 29% $ 11,894 Gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $20.3 million ( 28% of net revenue) and $8.4 million ( 29% of net revenue), respectively, an increase of $11.9 million . Gross margin on products from our Solar segment increased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 , due primarily to higher sales volumes of higher-margin products compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . Gross profit on products from our Semiconductor segment increased due to increased sales volume in the first quarter of 2018 , with gross margin decreasing due to product mix. Gross profit and gross margin on products from our Polishing segment increased from the prior year period, primarily due to higher sales of new products with higher margins. For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , we deferred gross profit of $2.1 million . For the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we recognized previously-deferred gross profit of $0.3 million . Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) consists of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors, facility costs, sales commissions, shipping costs, promotional marketing expenses, legal and accounting expenses and bad debt expense. SG&A expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $10.6 million and $7.0 million , respectively. SG&A increased compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to $1.8 million of higher commissions, freight and other selling expenses related to increased revenue. Also, for the three months ended December 31, 2016, SG&A expenses were reduced by the collections of previously reserved accounts receivable of approximately $1.0 million. Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering (RD&E) expenses consist of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors who design, engineer and develop new products and processes as well as materials and supplies used in producing prototypes. We receive reimbursements through governmental research and development grants which are netted against these expenses when certain conditions have been met. RD&E expense, net of grants earned, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $2.0 million and $1.6 million , respectively, an increase of $0.4 million , due primarily to increased R&D spending in our Solar segment. Income Taxes For the three months ended December 31, 2017 we recorded income tax expense of $1.2 million , resulting in an effective tax rate of 16.1% . For the three months ended December 31, 2016 we recorded income tax expense of $0.1 million , a 37.5% effective tax rate. The income tax provisions are based upon estimates of annual income, annual permanent differences and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, except that certain loss jurisdictions and discrete items are treated separately. Generally accepted accounting principles require that a valuation allowance be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including a companys performance, the market environment in which the company operates and the length of carryback and carryforward periods. According to those principles, it is difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when the negative evidence includes cumulative losses in recent years. Therefore, in fiscal 2017, cumulative losses weighed heavily in 16 Table of Contents the overall assessment. As a result of the review, where cumulative losses had been incurred, we continue to maintain a full valuation allowance for substantially all net deferred tax assets in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including the carryforwards of U.S. net operating losses and foreign tax credits, which were acquired in the merger with BTU International, Inc. and net operating losses in Europe. For the quarter ending December 31, 2017 , we determined that a portion of the deferred tax asset previously covered by the valuation allowance would be realized in the current tax period. We realized $1.4 million of deferred tax assets as a discrete item in the quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 , cash and cash equivalents were $52.7 million and $51.1 million , respectively, an increase of $1.6 million . Restricted cash decreased by $14.7 million to $9.9 million at December 31, 2017 from $24.6 million at September 30, 2017 . Our working capital was $79.7 million as of December 31, 2017 and $71.1 million as of September 30, 2017 . The increase in cash during the first three months of fiscal 2018 of $1.6 million was primarily due to proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We maintain a portion of our cash and cash equivalents in Euros at our Dutch and French operations and in RMB in our Chinese operations; therefore, changes in the exchange rate have an impact on our cash balances. Restricted cash decreased primarily due to the shipments of Phase II of the Solar turnkey order, which released the restrictions on the downpayment. Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 2.3 :1 as of December 31, 2017 , and 1.8 :1 as of September 30, 2017 . The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon the availability of additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to management. Our sources of capital in the past have included the sale of equity securities, which includes common stock sold in private transactions and public offerings, long-term debt and customer deposits. There can be no assurance that we can raise such additional capital resources on satisfactory terms. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity discussed above are sufficient to support operations for at least the next twelve months. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by our operating activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $3.5 million used in operations for the three months ended December 31, 2016 , an improvement of $3.8 million . During the three months ended December 31, 2017 , cash was primarily generated through net income adjusted for non-cash items of $7.4 million , which was offset by other increases and decreases in operating assets, primarily related to the turnkey project. A significant portion of the revenue and related cash payments related to the turnkey project are deferred and restricted, respectively, until completion of the integration of the equipment and transfer of the technology. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 , cash was reduced by increases in accounts receivable and restricted cash, offset by decreases in inventory. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , $1.1 million of cash provided by financing activities was comprised of $1.2 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by payments on long-term debt of $0.1 million . For the three months ended December 31, 2016 , $0.1 million of cash used in financing activities was primarily related to payments on long-term debt of $0.2 million net of borrowings of less than $0.1 million . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2017 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Unrecorded purchase obligations were $26.4 million as of December 31, 2017 , compared to $34.4 million as of September 30, 2017 , a decrease of $8.0 million due primarily to reduced vendor commitments as we complete the first two phases of the large solar project. Approximately $5.2 million of the December 31, 2017 and $11.8 million of the September 30, 2017 contractual obligations were prepaid as of those dates in the form of advances to vendors. 17 Table of Contents Refer to Amtechs Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended September 30, 2017 for additional information on our other contractual obligations. Critical Accounting Policies Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our condensed consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, accounts and notes receivable collectability, warranty and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates and judgments form the basis for making conclusions about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended September 30, 2017 . We believe our critical accounting policies relate to the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe the critical accounting policies discussed in the section entitled Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 represent the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Part I, Item 1: Financial Information under Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.