Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report. For information on the products of each operating segment, see Semiconductor Products and SiC/LED Products within this Item 1. Business section. For information regarding risks to our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our fiscal year is from October 1 to September 30. Unless otherwise stated, references to the years 2020, 2019 and 2018 relate to the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 7 GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY Historically, we have grown our business primarily through acquisitions, including the businesses that currently comprise our two operating segments in the Semiconductor and Sic/LED industries Bruce Technologies, BTU and PR Hoffman, as well as the Solar businesses we divested of in 2019 and 2020. The businesses we own today have provided substantial returns on our original investments. Our acquisition of BTU demonstrates our ability to unlock value in a company, to grow revenue and improve the performance of acquired assets. While we continue to believe this inorganic growth strategy is the backbone of who Amtech is as a company, we have also employed the complimentary strategy of pursuing organic growth, particularly during times when we lacked sufficient capital resources to pursue growth through acquisitions. In 2017 and 2018, the divestiture of our interest in Kingstone Hong Kong and the completion of a secondary offering, respectively, provided us with the capital foundation to renew our acquisition efforts; however, these efforts were temporarily interrupted by our focus on divesting of our Solar business beginning in 2019 and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. With these events behind us, we have a renewed objective to grow our revenue and expand our operations through strategic acquisitions, while at the same time pursuing organic growth. We intend to accomplish these parallel objectives through the pursuit of the following strategies: Capitalize on Growth Opportunities in the Semiconductor Industry by Leveraging Our Thermal and Material Processing Expertise, Top-Tier Customer Relationships, Track Record of Technological Innovation and Exceptional Customer Service. We believe that long-term growth in the semiconductor industry will be driven by emerging growth in new compound substrates, such as silicon carbide and gallium nitride, and the growing demand for 5G and mobility, consumer and industrial Internet-of-Things (IoT), increased adoption of sensors and electronics in the automotive industry, electric vehicles (EV) and charging infrastructure, and Chinas investment in their domestic semiconductor production capacity. As the semiconductor market continues to develop and evolve, advances in process technology will be vital to remaining competitive. We intend to continue leveraging our market position, relationships with leading global semiconductor customers and demonstrated track record of technical innovation and exceptional customer service to maximize sales of our current and next-generation technology solutions. Develop Multi-Product Solutions to Expand Our Addressable Market. We are focused on acquiring, developing and licensing new products across our business in response to customer needs in the markets we serve. As we add to our product portfolio organically or through acquisitions, we plan to continue expanding our offerings within the semiconductor and silicon carbide production processes, thus capturing a greater percentage of capital spent on increasing semiconductor and silicon carbide production. We have successfully developed products to expand our addressable market and continue to make evolutionary upgrades to our existing equipment and service offerings across our operating segments. In addition to developing new products, we plan to invest in upgrades to our existing product offerings to stay competitive in the markets we serve. As a result, we saw increased research and development expenses in 2020 and expect to continue to increase our capital expenditures and research and development expenses in fiscal 2021 and beyond for these evolutionary upgrades as well as for the development of specific new products. Pursue Strategic Acquisitions That Complement Our Strong Platform. As discussed above, we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy consistent with our focus of maintaining market leadership and technology innovation that addresses the continued growth in the semiconductor industry. In conjunction with the divestiture of our solar business and the promotion of Michael Whang to Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Chairmans focus has shifted to the pursuit of inorganic growth opportunities. As part of this strategy, we continually evaluate potential technology, product and business acquisitions or joint ventures that we believe will increase our existing market share in the semiconductor and SiC industries and expand our addressable market. In evaluating these opportunities, our objectives include enhancing our earnings and cash flows, adding complementary product offerings, expanding our geographic footprint, improving our production efficiency and expanding our customer base. As a result, we continue to manage our balance sheet to maintain adequate liquidity in order to react quickly as these opportunities arise. Invest in Our Infrastructure and Capacity. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we finished the move of our SiC/LED segment to a new location. This new location allows us to sufficiently increase our manufacturing footprint and position our business to meet the expected longer-term increase in demand for our SiC, optics, and 8 silicon substrate product solutions . W e are also assessing the manufacturing space used by our Semiconductor segment for capacity expansion, added efficiencies and cost savings. This assessment could result in a future relocation of a manufacturing facility and/or investments in upgrades to existing facilities. In addition, we are evaluating our management information systems and needs in order to allow for greater efficiencies and to ensure our infrastructure can support our future growth plans. SEMICONDUCTOR AND SiC/LED OPERATIONS We provide diffusion and reflow equipment as well as wafer polishing equipment and related services to leading semiconductor manufacturers. Our products include horizontal diffusion furnaces used to produce semiconductors, such as analog, sensors, and discrete devices, and MEMS, as well as double-sided lapping and polishing equipment, double-sided lapping and polishing carriers, and single side polishing templates. As demand for increasingly sophisticated electronic devices continues, new technologies such as electric vehicles, artificial intelligence, advanced power management, advances in consumer electronics, 5G communications, and IoT will help to drive future growth. Electronic equipment continues to become more complex, yet end users are still demanding smaller, lighter and less expensive devices. This, in turn, requires increased performance and reduced cost, size, weight and power requirements of electronic assemblies, printed circuit boards and semiconductors. In response to these developments, manufacturers are increasingly employing more sophisticated production and assembly techniques requiring more advanced manufacturing equipment, such as that supplied by our subsidiary, BTU. Although the semiconductor market has experienced significant growth over the past fifteen years, it remains cyclical by nature. The market is characterized by short-term periods of under or over utilization of capacity for most semiconductors, including microprocessors, memory, power management chips and other logic devices. When capacity utilization decreases due to the addition of excess capacity, semiconductor manufacturers typically slow their purchasing of capital equipment. Conversely, when capacity utilization increases, so does capital spending. SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS Our furnace and automation equipment are manufactured in our facilities in Massachusetts and China. The following paragraphs describe the products that comprise our semiconductor business: Horizontal Diffusion Furnaces. Through Bruce Technologies, we produce and sell 200mm and 300mm horizontal diffusion and deposition furnaces. Our horizontal furnaces currently address several steps in the semiconductor manufacturing process, including diffusion, LPCVD, high temperature oxidation (used in silicon and silicon carbide power chips), and annealing. Our horizontal furnaces generally consist of three large modules: the load station, where the loading of the wafers occurs; the furnace section, which is comprised of one to four thermal reactor chambers; and the gas distribution cabinet, where the flow of gases into the reactor chambers is controlled, and is often customized to meet the requirements of our customers particular processes. The horizontal furnaces utilize a combination of existing industry and proprietary technologies and are sold primarily to semiconductor customers. Our products are capable of processing all currently existing wafer sizes. Continuous Thermal Processing Systems. Through BTU, we produce and sell thermal processing systems used in the solder reflow and curing stages of printed circuit board assembly as well as systems for the thermal processes used in advanced semiconductor packaging. Our printed circuit board assembly products are used primarily in the advanced, high-density segments of the market that utilize surface mount technology. Flip-chip reflow provides the physical and electronic bond of the semiconductor device to its package. Our range of convection reflow systems, utilizing patented closed loop convection technology, are rated at up to 400C and operate in air or nitrogen atmospheres. These products utilize forced impingement convection technology to transfer heat to the substrate. Using thermal power arrays of up to five kilowatts, they can process substrates in dual lane, dual speed configurations, thereby enabling our customers to double production without increasing the 9 machines footprint. These products are available in four models based on the heated lengths of thermal processing chambers. Heated length is based on the required production rate and loading requirements. High-Temperature Belt Furnace. We also produce and sell custom, high-temperature belt furnaces, which we have manufactured in Massachusetts for over six decades with ISO 9001:2015 quality certification safe-guarding that each unit is subject to exacting build and test criteria. SiC/LED PRODUCTS Our SiC/LED segment manufactures the products described below in Pennsylvania and sells them under our PR Hoffman brand name. Substrate Carriers . We manufacture carriers in a variety of sizes and materials. Sizes range from 3 to 38 inches in diameter using a variety of special steels, laminates and extruded polymer raw materials. Silicon wafers, compound semiconductor wafers, and large optics require special insert carriers. These carriers combine the strength of hardened steel as the processing backbone with a softer plastic material in the work holes known as an insert. Inserts are permanently molded into the work holes in a pressurized process. These inserted work holes provide smoother processing, improved wafer total thickness variation (TTV) and improved wafer edge quality. Insert carriers are available for all wafer sizes from 75mm to 450mm and can be made from hardened and tempered carbon steel or specialized stainless steel when metal contamination is a processing concern. Insert carriers are widely accepted as the industry solution for both prime wafer and reclaim wafer manufacturers when dual sided lapping or polishing are utilized in their front-end wafer process. Substrate Polishing Templates . Our polishing templates are used to securely hold silicon carbide, silicon, sapphire or other wafer materials in place during single-sided wax-free polishing processes. Polishing templates are customized for specific applications and are manufactured to extremely tight tolerances. We offer a variety of options to provide the best solution for each specific process. Polishing templates are manufactured for all brands of tools and virtually any wax-free customer process. Critical front-end wafer surface specifications are finalized during the polishing process. Double-Sided Lapping and Polishing Machines . Double-sided lapping and polishing machines are designed to process materials such as silicon wafers, sapphire and other wafer-like materials, precision optics, computer disks, ceramic components, specialty metal products to exact tolerances of thickness, flatness, parallelism and surface finish. On average, we believe that we offer our surface processing systems with a lower cost of ownership than systems offered by our competitors. We target the compound substrate, semiconductor, optical sapphire, glass, quartz, ceramics, medical, computer disk and metal working markets. MANUFACTURING, RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES Our semiconductor manufacturing activities consist primarily of engineering design to meet specific and evolving customer needs and procurement and assembly of various commercial and proprietary components into finished thermal processing systems and related automation in North Billerica, Massachusetts and Shanghai, China. Our manufacturing activities in the polishing business include laser-cutting and other fabrication steps in producing lapping and polishing consumables, including carriers, templates, gears, wear items and spare parts in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, from raw materials manufactured to our specifications by our suppliers. These products are engineered and designed for specific applications and to meet the increasingly tight tolerances required by our customers. Many items, such as proprietary components for our semiconductor equipment and lapping plates, are purchased from suppliers who manufacture these items to our specifications. Final assembly and tests of our manufactured equipment and machines are performed within our manufacturing facilities. Quality control is maintained through inspection of incoming materials and components, in-process inspection during equipment assembly, testing of assemblies and final inspection and, when practical, operation of manufactured equipment prior to shipment. Since much of our polishing supplies know-how relates to the manufacture of these products, our Carlisle facility is equipped to perform a significantly higher percentage of the fabrication steps required in the production of its products. However, injection molding for our insert carriers and the manufacture of raw cast iron plates are 10 subcontracted out to various third parties. Our polishing supplies business relies on key suppliers for certain materials, including two steel mills in Germany and Japan, an injection molder, a single-sourced pad supplier from Japan and an adhesive manufacturer. To minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts, we s eek to maintain appropriate inventory levels of key raw materials and parts. Beginning in 2019 and throughout 2020, we experienced increased lead times for various parts and services across both our operating segments. As a result of the increases in lead-times for these parts, we have increased the amount of on-hand inventory related to long-lead time items. We have also increased on-hand inventory of certain parts as part of a strategy to mitigate supply chain risk, primarily at our operations in China, due to the trade and tariff environment between China and the United States. Despite these strategic increases, there can be no assurance that we will have enough inventory on-hand at the time we receive orders and that we will not incur delays in production time. CUSTOMERS AND SEASONALITY Our customers are primarily manufacturers of semiconductor substrates and devices and electronic assemblies. During 2020, 65% of our net revenue from continuing operations came from customers outside of North America. This group represented 59% of revenues in 2019. In 2020, net revenue from continuing operations was distributed among customers in different geographic regions as follows: North/South America 35% (28% of which is in the United States), Asia 52% (including 25% in China, 15% in Taiwan and 5% in Malaysia) and 13% in Europe. One Semiconductor customer accounted for 11% of our net revenues from our continuing operations in 2020. In 2019, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues. In 2018, one Semiconductor customer accounted for 14% of our net revenues. A turnkey customer accounted for 58% of our net revenues at our discontinued operations in 2018. Our business is not seasonal in nature, but is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including capacity utilization, anticipated demand, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. SALES AND MARKETING Due to the highly technical nature of our products, we market our products primarily by direct customer contact through our sales personnel and through a network of domestic and international independent sales representatives and distributors that specialize in semiconductor equipment and supplies. Our promotional activities include direct sales contacts, participation in trade shows, advertising in trade magazines and the distribution of product brochures. We use a mix of representatives and distributors globally. Manufacturer representatives provide sales coverage in specific geographic regions and are paid a commission when equipment is sold. Sales to distributors are generally on terms comparable to sales to end-user customers, as our distributors generally quote their customers after first obtaining a quote from us and have an order from the end-user before placing an order with us. Our sales to distributors are not contingent on their future sales and do not include a general right of return. Historically, returns have been rare. Distributors of our semiconductor equipment do not stock a significant amount of our products, as the inventory they hold is generally limited to parts needed to provide timely repairs to customers. Our manufacturer representatives and distributors are closely managed by our global sales team. Historically, each of our segments have been responsible for their own sales and marketing activities, including managing sales personnel and representative and distributor relationships, however, as we continue to refocus our organization, we are developing opportunities for increased collaboration and teamwork across our divisions. These cross-segment collaboration opportunities will continue to be a focus at all levels and departments of the organization, as we believe they can lead to greater efficiencies while reducing operating costs. These efforts are further coordinated by our Vice President of Sales and Customer Service, who oversees all sales and marketing activities at each division. 11 RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING The markets we serve are characterized by rapidly-evolving industry standards and technological change. To compete effectively, we must continually maintain or exceed the pace of such change by improving our products and our process technologies and by developing new technologies and products that are competitive based on price and performance. To assure that these technologies and products address current and future customer requirements, we obtain as much customer cooperation and input as possible, thus increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our research and development efforts. In addition, we look for strategic acquisitions, that will provide us with new technologies to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. From time to time we add functionality to our products or develop new products during engineering and manufacturing to fulfill specifications in a customers order, in which case the cost of development, along with other costs of the order, are charged to cost of sales. We periodically receive research grants for research and development of products, which are netted against our research, development and engineering costs. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded RD&E expense of $3.3 million , $3.1 million and $2.9 million, respectively. We plan to continue to develop new products and also to invest in upgrades to existing product offerings to stay competitive in the markets we serve. As a result, we saw increased RD&E expenses in 2020 and expect to continue to increase our capital expenditures and RD&E expenses in fiscal 2021 and beyond for these upgrades as well as for the development of specific new products. COMPETITION We compete in several distinct equipment markets for semiconductor devices, semiconductor substrates, MEMS, semiconductor packaging, and electronics assembly, as well as the markets for supplies used in power semiconductor applications. Each of these markets is highly competitive. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to continually improve our products, processes and services, as well as our ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in these markets include the products technical capability, productivity, cost-effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control and the level of technical service and support. The Semiconductor and MEMS Markets . Equipment and automation produced by our Semiconductor operating segment primarily competes with those produced by other original equipment manufacturers, some of which are well-established firms that are much larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Competitors of our horizontal diffusion furnaces include Centrotherm GmbH, Sandvik Thermal Process, Inc., a subsidiary of Sandvik AB, and CVD Equipment, Inc. Our principal competitors for printed circuit board assembly equipment and advanced semiconductor packaging vary by product application. The principal competitors for solder reflow systems are ITW/EAE Vitronics-Soltec, Heller, Folungwin, ERSA, Shenzhen JT Automation Equipment Co., Ltd. and Rehm. The principal competitors for advanced semiconductor packaging are ITW/EAE Vitronics-Soltec and Heller. Our in-line, controlled atmosphere furnaces compete primarily against products offered by Centrotherm and SierraTherm/Schmid Thermal Systems. We also face competition from emerging low-cost Asian manufacturers and other established European manufacturers. Although price is a factor in buying decisions, we believe that technological leadership, process capability, throughput, safer designs, uptime, mean time-to-repair, cost of ownership and after-sale support have become increasingly important factors to purchasers of our products. As such, we believe we compete primarily on the basis of these criteria, rather than on the basis of price alone. General Industrial Lapping and Polishing Machines, Supplies and Semiconductor Substrate Markets . Our SiC/LED operating segment experiences price competition for wafer carriers from foreign manufacturers for which there is very little publicly available information. As a result, we are intensifying our efforts to reduce the cost of our carriers and will continue to compete with other manufacturers of carriers by continuing to update our product line to keep pace with the rapid changes in our customers requirements and by providing a high level of quality and customer service. We produce steel carriers, including insert carriers, on advanced laser-cutting tools, which reduces 12 our costs and lead times and increases our control over quality. Competitors of our lapping and polishing machines and supplies include Lapmaster Wolters, Speedfam Co. Ltd., Hamai Co., Ltd., Onse, Inc. and Eminess Technologies, Inc. Our strategy to enhance our sales of wafer carriers and templates includes developing new applications in close collaboration with our customers, continuous improvement in our products and providing a high level of customer support and products that deliver greater value to our customers. EMPLOYEES As of September 30, 2020, we employed 296 people. Of these employees, 8 were based at our corporate offices in Tempe, Arizona, 43 at our manufacturing plant in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, 96 at our manufacturing plant in N. Billerica, Massachusetts, 132 at our facilities in China, 10 at other Asia-Pacific offices and 7 at our office in the United Kingdom. Of the 43 people employed at our Carlisle, Pennsylvania facility, 18 were represented by the United Auto Workers Union - Local 1443. We have never experienced a work stoppage or strike, and other than employees at the Carlisle facility, no other employees are represented by a union. We consider our employee relations to be good. PATENTS The following table shows our material patents, the patents licensed by us, and the expiration date of each patent and license: Product Countries Expiration Date or Pending Approval IBAL (Individual Boats with Automated Loading) Model S-300 United States Various Ultrafast gas bearing-based reactive ion etching Europe 2030 Modular furnace system United States 2021 Convection furnace thermal profile enhancement United States 2023 Lapping machine adjustable mechanism Various 2027 RFID-containing carriers used for silicon wafer quality United States 2027 Polishing machine wafer holder Taiwan 2037 Wafer Boat Elevator System and Method United States 2021 To our knowledge, there are currently no pending lawsuits against us regarding infringement of any existing patents or other intellectual property rights or any material unresolved claims made by third parties that allege we are infringing the intellectual property rights of such third parties. DISCONTINUED SOLAR OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTS Our previously reported, Solar segment included Tempress (a Texas Corporation based in the Netherlands), SoLayTec (a Netherlands Corporation), and R2D (a French Corporation). Tempress was sold in 2020, SoLayTec was sold in 2019, and R2D was sold in 2020 (see Note 2). Our discontinued operation results consist of Tempress and SoLayTec. R2D was also previously reported as the Automation segment prior to its disposal. On April 3, 2019, we announced that the Board determined that it was in the long-term best interest of the Company to exit the Solar business segment and to focus our strategic efforts on our semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing business segments in order to more fully realize the opportunities we believe are presented in those markets. The divestiture included our Tempress and SoLayTec subsidiaries, which comprised substantially all of our Solar segment. The portion of our Solar segment not included in discontinued operations was our Automation division, R2D, which historically sold automation products to both solar and semiconductor customers. R2D experienced a significant decline in sales of automation to other divisions in our Solar segment and was also negatively impacted by the slowdown in the broader semiconductor industry. We evaluated how and whether R2D could fit into our current semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing strategy and determined that the disposition of R2D was in the best interests of our Company and our shareholders. See Acquisitions and Dispositions within this Item 1. Business section for information related to the disposal of our former Solar subsidiaries. 13 Our Solar discontinued operations provide d process equipment and related cell manufacturing equipment to many of the worlds leading solar cell manufacturers. O ur primary process equipment focus was our existing solar diffusion furnace and the development of next-generation diffusion furnaces, including our proprietary N-type systems and our PECVD systems. Additionally, through SoLayTec, we produced, developed, delivered and serviced ultrafast ALD machines used in high efficiency solar cells. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS In September 2015, we sold a portion of our equity interest in Kingstone Hong Kong to a China-based venture capital firm. Kingstone Hong Kong is the parent company of Shanghai Kingstone, a Shanghai-based technology company specializing in ion implant solutions for the solar and semiconductor industries (in which we acquired a 55% ownership in February 2011). Proceeds from this sale were paid to Amtech and used to fund our core strategic initiatives. After giving effect to this sale transaction, we owned 15% of Kingstone Hong Kong, which in turn represented an 8% beneficial ownership interest in Shanghai Kingstone. Effective June 29, 2018, we sold this remaining 15% ownership interest in Kingstone Hong Kong to the majority owner for approximately $5.7 million. In December 2014, we expanded our presence in the solar market by acquiring a 51% controlling interest in SoLayTec, which provides ALD systems used in high efficiency solar cells. In July 2017, we acquired the remaining 49% interest in SoLayTec. On June 7, 2019, we completed the sale of SoLayTec to a third party located in the Netherlands. Upon the sale, we recognized a gain of approximately $1.6 million, which we included in loss from discontinued operations reported in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2019. Effective January 22, 2020 (Tempress Sale Date), we completed the sale of Tempress for nominal consideration to a third party located in the Netherlands. We recorded a pre-tax loss on sale of approximately $10.9 million, of which approximately $7.2 million was the recognition of previously recorded accumulated foreign currency translation losses. The loss was included in loss from discontinued operations reported in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2020. The total pre-tax loss does not have a material effect on our cash balances at our continuing operations. Effective on the Tempress Sale Date, Tempress is no longer included in our consolidated financial statements. On December 13, 2019 (R2D Sale Date), we finalized the sale of R2D to certain members of R2Ds management team. Upon the sale, we recognized a loss of approximately $2.8 million, which we reported as loss on sale of subsidiary in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2020. Effective on the R2D Sale Date, R2D is no longer included in our consolidated financial statements. R2D did not meet the discontinued operations or held-for-sale criteria. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our corporate website, www.amtechsystems.com , provides materials for investors and information about our products. Through our website, we make available, without charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company intends to disclose any amendment to its Code of Ethics on the above-referenced corporate website. The information found on our website, or information that may be accessed through links on our website, are not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition, our SEC filings are available at the SECs website at www.sec.gov . ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risks and uncertainties, nor can it assess the extent to which any of the risk factors below or any such new risks and uncertainties, or any combination thereof, may impact our business. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information and risks set forth herein. 14 Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry There is ongoing volatility in the semiconductor equipment industry. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical and volatile. As such, demand for, and the profitability of, our products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including the following: changes in global and regional economic conditions; the shift of semiconductor production to Asia, where there often is increased price competition; tariffs, quotas and international trade barriers; changes in capacity utilization and production volume of manufacturers of semiconductors, silicon wafers and MEMS; the profitability and capital resources of those manufacturers; and challenges associated with marketing and selling manufacturing equipment and services to a diverse and diffuse customer base. For these and other reasons, our results of operations for past periods may not be indicative of future operating results. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on their capacity utilization, which changes when new facilities are put into production and with the level of demand for our products, as well as our customers capital expenditure budgets. Purchasing decisions are also impacted by changes in the economies of the countries served by our customers, as well as the state of the worldwide industries in which we operate or expect to operate in the future. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. Additionally, we generally experience a one-to-two quarter lag between upturns/downturns experienced by larger equipment manufacturers. The cyclical nature of the markets we serve affects our ability to accurately budget our expense levels, which are based in part on our projections of future revenue. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, our operating results are adversely affected. Cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to make timely adjustments to our cost and expense structure to correspond to the prevailing market conditions; effectively manage the supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand, which may require additional liquidity. We can provide no assurance that we can timely and effectively respond to the industry cycles, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and, because we are relatively small in size and have fewer financial and other resources compared to our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully in these markets. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with extensive financial resources and research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities that are greater than ours. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products, some of which compete with the products and services we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. In addition, we face competition from emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer often at a lower price than ours and use innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. We also face competition from Chinese 15 equipment manufacturers that may receive greater support than we do from Chinese customers and governmental agencies because they are locally based. In addition, o ur local Chinese competitors may offer lower prices and more liberal payment terms than ours. Loss of our competitive position due to any of these factors could impair our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share, any of which would negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Operations Business interruptions, including those related to the novel strain of the coronavirus (COVID-19), have had and continue to have an adverse impact on our operations, including among others, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and product development and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in future quarterly periods. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic, or a worldwide spread of a new disease, on March 11, 2020. The outbreak has resulted in government authorities and businesses throughout the world implementing numerous measures intended to contain and limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place and lock-down orders, and business limitations and shutdowns. These measures have negatively impacted consumer and business spending generally and have significantly contributed to deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. While governments around the world have taken steps to attempt to mitigate some of the more severe anticipated economic effects of COVID-19, there can be no assurance that such steps will be effective or achieve their desired results in a timely fashion. While we continue to monitor and assess the impact on our business from the spread of COVID-19 and the ever evolving actions implemented by governments across the globe, our operations in China have returned to near-capacity and we continue to experience an adverse impact of COVID-19 on our operations in the United States. The degree to which the coronavirus impacts our future business and operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration, spread and severity of the outbreak, new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. In particular, the continued spread and/or resurgence of the coronavirus globally could result in a widespread health crisis and/or change in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the global economy and financial markets, resulting in an economic downturn, and could also adversely impact our operations, including, without limitation, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and product development operations, particularly our prospective sales if the Semiconductor and SiC/LED business segments we seek to serve suffer long-term damage. Such an economic downturn could have an adverse impact on the successful and timely implementation of our strategic growth plan and on our business, financial condition results of operations. We are similarly unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic impacts our customers, suppliers and other partners and their financial conditions, but adverse effects on these parties could also adversely affect us. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund existing operations and planned expansions. Cash flows may be insufficient to provide adequate working capital in the future and we may require additional financing for further implementation of our growth plans. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available if and when required, or, even if available, that it would not materially dilute the ownership percentage of our then existing shareholders, result in increased expenses or result in covenants or special rights that would restrict our operations. 16 We may not be able to manage our business successfully through severe business cycles. We may be unable to successfully expand or contract our business to meet fluctuating demands. Market fluctuations place significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. To successfully manage our growth through such market fluctuations, we believe we must effectively: maintain the appropriate number and mix of permanent, part-time, temporary and contract employees to meet the fluctuating demand for our products; train, integrate and manage personnel, particularly process engineers, field service engineers, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel to maintain and improve skills and morale; retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; continue to enhance our customer resource and manufacturing management systems to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction and efficiencies, including inventory control; implement and improve existing and new administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls; expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapidly changing business cycles. If we are unable to manage these cycles effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new technologies and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert managements attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other risks. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and consider acquisitions an important part of our future growth strategy, including, in particular, in connection with our new focus on our silicon carbide business segment. In the past, we have made acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with synergistic products, services and technologies and plan to continue to do so in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of geographically diverse personnel, operations, technologies and products; diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; the potential loss of our key employees and the key employees of acquired companies; the potential loss of our key customers and suppliers and the key customers and suppliers of acquired companies; disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; our inability to achieve the intended cost efficiency, level of profitability or other intended strategic goals for the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances; 17 lack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; the possibility that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger could be dilutive to our shareholders; impairment of acquired assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company; inability to complete proposed transactions as anticipated or at all and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee and any other associated transaction expenses; the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; potential changes in our credit rating, which could adversely impact our access to and cost of capital; potential litigation that may arise in connection with an acquisition; reductions in cash balances and/or increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes; inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal financial controls, disclosure