Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report) and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. Overview We are a leading, global manufacturer of capital equipment, including thermal processing and wafer polishing and related consumables used in fabricating semiconductor devices, such as silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon power chips, electronic assemblies and light-emitting diodes (LEDs). We sell these products to semiconductor and automotive component manufacturers worldwide, particularly in Asia, North America and Europe. We operate in two reportable business segments, based primarily on the industry they serve: (i) Semiconductor, and (ii) SiC/LED. In our Semiconductor segment, we supply thermal processing equipment, including solder reflow ovens, diffusion furnaces, and custom high-temp belt furnaces for use by semiconductor and electronics assembly manufacturers. In our SiC/LED segment, we produce substrate consumables and machinery for lapping (fine abrading) and polishing of materials, such as silicon wafers for semiconductor products, sapphire wafers for LED applications, and compound substrates, like silicon carbide wafers, for power device applications. Our semiconductor customers are primarily manufacturers of integrated circuits, optoelectronic, sensors and discrete (O-S-D) components used in analog, power and radio frequency (RF) devices and photovoltaic solar cells. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and historically has experienced fluctuations. Our revenue is impacted by these broad industry trends. Although semiconductor demand for our products may have reached its cyclical peak in our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we believe that continued technological advances and emerging industries, such as silicon carbide power devices, will sustain our long-term performance. Strategy As we pivot from our Solar business and refocus on our Semiconductor and SiC/LED businesses, we have focused on our plans to profitably grow our business and have developed a strategic growth plan and a capital allocation plan that we believe will support our growth objectives. Our strategic growth plan calls for profitable growth as the semi industry recovers, with the following areas of focus: Emerging opportunities in the SiC industry We believe we are well-positioned to take part in this significant growth area. We are working closely with our customers to understand their SiC growth plans and opportunities. We are investing in our capacity, next generation product development, and investing in our people. We believe these investments will help fuel our growth in the SiC industry. 300 mm Silicon Horizontal Thermal Reactor We have a highly successful and proven 300 mm solution for growing power semiconductor applications. Moreover, we have a strong foundation with a key customer, and, in the second half of fiscal 2019, we announced an order to another industry-leading manufacturer. We believe we have a strong opportunity to expand our customer base and future revenue growth. As a major revenue contributor, our subsidiary, BTU International, Inc. (BTU), tracks semi industry growth for our semi-packaging and SMT products, and we expect this trend to continue. We believe that through investments in product innovation, BTU is also positioned for future growth. We project that the required investments to achieve our revenue growth targets will be in the range of $6.0 - $8.0 million in research and development and capital expenditures. We may also need to make investments in other areas of our business, such as IT systems and capacity expansions at our existing facilities. Additionally, as a capital equipment manufacturer, we will need working capital to support and fuel our future growth. 20 In addition to these investments in our organic growth, another key aspect of our capital allocation policy is our plan to grow through acquisitions. We have the skillset and track record to identify strong acquisition targets in the semi and SiC growth environment and to execute transactions and integrations to provide for accretive, profitable growth in both the short-term and long-term. As of the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we do not have an agreement to acquire any acquisition target. Solar Developments On April 3, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors (the Board) determined that it was in the long-term best interest of the Company to exit the Solar business segment and focus our strategic efforts on our semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing business segments in order to more fully realize the opportunities the Company believes are presented in those areas. The anticipated divestitures included our Tempress and SoLayTec subsidiaries, which comprised substantially all of our Solar segment. On June 7, 2019 (Sale Date), we completed the sale of our SoLayTec to a third party located in the Netherlands. Upon the sale, we recognized a gain of approximately $1.6 million, which we reported as gain on sale of subsidiary in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2019. Effective on the Sale Date, SoLayTec is no longer included in our consolidated financial statements. SoLayTec was not material to Amtechs results of operations or financial position. We engaged an investment advisory firm located in the Netherlands to provide advice with respect to and assist us with our efforts to divest of Tempress. The advisory firm was actively engaged in conversations with both private equity and strategic buyers for nearly a year. The offers that emerged from this process included terms that were not favorable to us and, in most cases, required a cash infusion from us. On January 22, 2020, we sold our shares of Tempress Group Holding B.V. for nominal consideration to a third party located in the Netherlands. In connection with the sale, we agreed to provide an unsecured term loan to Tempress in the amount of $2,250,000. The portion of our Solar segment not included in discontinued operations was our Automation division, R2D Automation SAS (R2D), which historically sold automation products to both solar and semiconductor customers. R2D experienced a significant decline in sales of automation to other divisions in our Solar segment and was also negatively impacted by the slowdown in the broader semiconductor industry. We evaluated how and whether R2D could fit into our current semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing strategy and determined that the disposition of R2D was in the best interests of our Company and our shareholders. Therefore, on December 13, 2019, we completed the sale of R2D to certain members of R2Ds management team. Segment Reporting Changes After announcing the planned divestiture of our Solar segment, we conducted an evaluation of our organizational structure. Beginning with the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we made changes to our reportable segments. With the divestiture of our Automation segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we further evaluated our organization structure and concluded that we have two reportable business segments following the divestiture. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period segment reporting structure. 21 Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of sales 60 % 61 % Gross margin 40 % 39 % Selling, general and administrative 29 % 28 % Research, development and engineering 3 % 4 % Restructuring charges % 4 % Operating income 8 % 3 % Loss on sale of subsidiary (14 )% % Interest income and other, net % 1 % (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes (6 )% 4 % Income tax provision % 3 % (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of tax (6 )% 1 % Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (3 )% (11 )% Net loss (9 )% (10 )% In the second quarter of 2019, we began the process to divest our solar business. As such, we have classified portions of the Solar segment as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and reported its results as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of revenue recognized upon shipment or installation of equipment, with the exception of products using new technology, for which revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance. Spare parts sales are recognized upon shipment and service revenue is recognized upon completion of the service activity, which is generally ratable over the term of the service contract. Since the majority of our revenue is generated from large system sales, revenue and operating income can be significantly impacted by the timing of system shipments and system acceptances. Our net revenue by operating segment was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2019 2018 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 17,232 $ 18,960 $ (1,728 ) (9 )% SiC/LED 2,817 2,983 $ (166 ) (6 )% Non-segment related 643 1,282 (639 ) (50 )% Total net revenue $ 20,692 $ 23,225 $ (2,533 ) (11 )% Total net revenue for the quarters ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $20.7 million and $23.2 million, respectively, a decrease of approximately $2.5 million or 11%. Revenue from the Semiconductor segment decreased 9% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to lower sales of diffusion furnaces. This decline in sales is attributable to market demand peaking in fiscal 2018. Revenue from our SiC/LED segment was relatively flat compared to the prior year quarter as the market remains soft and customers continue to be cautious. We believe this is a temporary trend and that significant potential in the SiC industry remains. 22 Backlog and Orders For comparison purposes, we have removed the Automation segment, which was sold effective December 13, 2019, from the tables below. Our backlog as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (dollars in thousands): December 31, Segment 2019 2018 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 12,764 $ 18,158 $ (5,394 ) (30 )% SiC/LED 680 3,456 (2,776 ) (80 )% Total backlog $ 13,444 $ 21,614 $ (8,170 ) (38 )% New orders booked in the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment . 2018 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 15,094 $ 16,094 $ (1,000 ) (6 )% SiC/LED 2,531 3,744 (1,213 ) (32 )% Total new orders $ 17,625 $ 19,838 $ (2,213 ) (11 )% As of December 31, 2019, one Semiconductor customer individually accounted for 10% of our backlog. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our backlog as of December 31, 2019. The orders included in our backlog are generally credit approved customer purchase orders believed to be firm and are generally expected to ship within the next twelve months. Because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize profit from completing these orders. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is the difference between net revenue and cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists of purchased material, labor and overhead to manufacture equipment and spare parts and the cost of service and support to customers for installation, warranty and paid service calls. Gross margin is gross profit as a percent of net revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin by operating segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2019 Gross Margin 2018 Gross Margin Incr (Decr) Semiconductor $ 7,186 42 % $ 7,490 40 % $ (304 ) SiC/LED 979 35 % 1,224 41 % (245 ) Non-segment related 9 1 % 306 24 % (297 ) Total gross profit $ 8,174 40 % $ 9,020 39 % $ (846 ) Gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $8.2 million (40% of net revenue) and $9.0 million (39% of net revenue), respectively, a decrease of $0.8 million. Our gross margins can be affected by capacity utilization and the type and volume of machines and consumables sold each quarter. Gross margin on products from our Semiconductor segment increased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to a mix of higher margin machine and furnace sales. Gross margin on products from our SiC/LED segment decreased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to product mix and sales of lower margin machines. 23 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) consists of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors, facility costs, sales commissions, shipping costs, promotional marketing expenses, legal and accounting expenses and bad debt expense. SG&A expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $5.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively. SG&A decreased compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to lower employee-related expenses, with prior year expenses consisting of legal and other costs related to the departure of our former CEO and lower commissions on lower diffusion furnace sales, partially offset by increased legal expenses in the current period relating to our Solar and Automation divestitures. Restructuring Charges We recorded restructuring charges of $0.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2018, which primarily related to the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer. There were no restructuring charges recorded in the current period. Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering (RD&E) expenses consist of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors who design, engineer and develop new products and processes as well as materials and supplies used in producing prototypes. We receive governmental research and development grants which are netted against these expenses when certain conditions have been met. RD&E expense, net of grants earned, for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $0.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The decrease is due to increased reimbursements in fiscal 2020. Income Taxes For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded income tax expense at our continuing operations of $41,000 and $0.6 million, respectively. In the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we realized an income tax expense of $19,000 and $18,000 in our discontinued operations. The income tax provisions are based upon estimates of annual income, annual permanent differences and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, except that certain loss jurisdictions and discrete items are treated separately. Generally accepted accounting principles require that a valuation allowance be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including a companys performance, the market environment in which the company operates and the length of carryback and carryforward periods. According to those principles, it is difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when the negative evidence includes cumulative losses in recent years. We have concluded that we will maintain a full valuation allowance for all net deferred tax assets in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and for the carryforwards of U.S. net operating losses and foreign tax credits, acquired in the merger with BTU International, for which there are limitations on their utilization. We will continue to monitor our cumulative income and loss positions in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and will conduct an additional evaluation in conjunction with the sale of Tempress in our second quarter of fiscal 2020, to determine whether full valuation allowances on net deferred tax assets are appropriate. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as the amount of income (loss) in each tax jurisdiction, tax regulations governing each region, non-tax deductible expenses incurred as a percent of pre-tax income and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. 24 Discontinued Operations As disclosed previously in the Solar Developments section, we announced that our Board determined that it was in the long-term best interest of the Company to exit the solar business segment and focus our strategic efforts on our semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing business segments in order to more fully realize the opportunities we believe are presented in those areas. The divestitures included our Tempress and SoLayTec subsidiaries, which comprised substantially all of our Solar segment. As such, we classified portions of the Solar segment as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and reported its results as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. SoLayTec was sold effective June 7, 2019 (see Note 4 for additional information) and Tempress was sold effective January 22, 2020 (see Note 12 for additional information). Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth for the periods presented certain consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net cash used in operating activities $ (168 ) $ (646 ) Net cash used in investing activities (820 ) (152 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 598 (58 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 1,141 (662 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 751 (1,518 ) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of period* 59,134 62,496 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of period* $ 59,885 $ 60,978 * Includes Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash that are included in Held-For-Sale Assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash and Cash Flow The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash during the first three months of fiscal 2020 of $0.8 million was primarily due to cash received from stock option exercises. We maintain a portion of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in RMB at our Chinese operations and in Euros at our Dutch operations; therefore, changes in the exchange rates have an impact on our cash balances. Our working capital was $79.5 million as of December 31, 2019 and $77.6 million as of September 30, 2019. The increase in our working capital occurred primarily due to increases in accounts receivable due to shipments late in the quarter. Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 4.2:1 as of December 31, 2019, and 3.5:1 as of September 30, 2019. Excluding our held-for-sale assets and liabilities, our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 9.1:1 as of December 31, 2019, and 7.1:1 as of September 30, 2019. The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon the availability of additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to management. Our sources of capital in the past have included the sale of equity securities, which includes common stock sold in private transactions and public offerings, long-term debt and customer deposits. There can be no assurance that we can raise such additional capital resources when needed or on satisfactory terms. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity discussed above are sufficient to support operations for at least the next twelve months. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. 25 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash used in our operating activities was approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, an improvement of approximately $0.5 million. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, net loss adjusted for non-cash items provided cash of $2.4 million, which was offset by $2.6 million of cash used in operations as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, $1.0 million was used in losses from operations adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by $0.4 million of cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended December 31, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $0.8 million compared to $0.2 million in the prior year period. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended December 31, 2019, $0.6 million of cash provided by financing activities was comprised of approximately $0.7 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by payments on long-term debt of $0.1 million. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, $0.1 million of cash used in financing activities was comprised of $37,000 of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, fully offset by payments on long-term debt of $0.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Unrecorded purchase obligations at our continuing operations were $4.5 million as of December 31, 2019, compared to $4.4 million as of September 30, 2019, an increase of $0.1 million. There were no other material changes to the contractual obligations included in Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies Part I, Item 2: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Quarterly Report discusses our condensed consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, accounts and notes receivable collectability, warranty and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates and judgments form the basis for making conclusions about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 26 A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019 . We believe our critical accounting policies relate to the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe the critical accounting policies discussed in the section entitled Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 represent the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Other than the Leases policy change disclosed in Note 2 hereto, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended December 31, 2019. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Part I, Item 1: Financial Information under Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.