MD&A Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MEMS microelectromechanical systems mm millimeter NOLs net operating loss carryforwards Note __ Note __ to the consolidated financial statements OCR Optical Character Recognition O-S-D Optoelectronic, Sensors & Discrete our Amtech Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PECVD plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition PMT multi-employer pension plan Pensioenfonds Metaal en Techniek PR Hoffman P.R. Hoffman Machine Products, Inc. Proxy Statement Amtechs Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with its 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders PV photovoltaic R2D R2D Automation SAS RD&E Research, development and engineering Registrant Amtech Systems, Inc. RF Radio Frequency SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Semi Semiconductor SG&A Selling, general and administrative expenses SiC silicon carbide SiC/LED our SiC/LED operating segment SMT surface-mount technology SoLayTec SoLayTec B.V. SSP standalone selling price Subsidiaries Subsidiaries of Amtech Systems, Inc. listed on Exhibit 21 hereto The TCJA The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Tempress Tempress Systems, Inc. TOPCON tunnel oxide passivated contact TTV total thickness variation us Amtech Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries U.S. The United States of America USA PATRIOT act the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools to Restrict, Intercept, and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 USTR United States Trade Representative we Amtech Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries Yingli Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited 4 Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements Unless otherwise indicated, the terms Amtech, the Company, we, us and our refer to Amtech Systems, Inc. together with its subsidiaries. Our discussion and analysis in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2019 Annual Report to Shareholders, our other reports that we file with the SEC, our press releases and in public statements of our officers and corporate spokespersons contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our or our officers current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current events. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as may, plan, anticipate, seek, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, believe, continue, predict, potential, project, should, would, could, likely, future, target, forecast, goal, observe, and strategy or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology relating to uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Any expectations based on these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors, including those discussed in the section entitled Item 1A. Risk Factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, among others, future economic conditions, including changes in the markets in which we operate; changes in demand for our services and products; our revenue and operating performance; difficulties in successfully executing our growth initiatives; difficulties in executing on our strategic efforts with respect to our silicon carbide/polishing business segment; the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate, including the adverse impact of competitive product announcements or new entrants into our markets and transfers of resources by competitors into our markets; the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; pricing and gross profit pressures; control of costs and expenses; risks associated with new technologies and the impact on our business; legislative, regulatory, and competitive developments in markets in which we operate; the outcome of the settlement proceedings with a customer relating to a previously announced turnkey contract; possible future claims, litigation or enforcement actions and the results of any such claim, litigation proceeding, or enforcement action; risks associated with our dispositions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our dispositions; the risk of unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from any dispositions; and other circumstances and risks identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or referenced from time to time in our filings with the SEC. The occurrence of the events described, and the achievement of the expected results, depend on many events, some or all of which are not predictable or within our control. These and many other factors could affect Amtechs future operating results and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Amtech or on its behalf. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based on our or our officers current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will in fact transpire or prove to be accurate. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequently filed Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and our other filings with the SEC. Also note that we provide a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. 5 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY We are a leading, global manufacturer of capital equipment, including thermal processing and wafer polishing, and related consumables used in fabricating semiconductor devices, such as silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon power chips, electronic assemblies and light-emitting diodes (LEDs). We sell these products to semiconductor and automotive component manufacturers worldwide, particularly in Asia, North America and Europe. Our strategic focus is on semiconductor growth opportunities in power electronics, leveraging our strength in our core competencies in thermal and substrate processing. We are a market leader in the high-end power chip market (SiC and 300mm silicon horizontal thermal reactor), developing and supplying essential equipment and consumables used in the semiconductor industry. We were incorporated in Arizona in October 1981, under the name Quartz Engineering & Materials, Inc. We changed to our present name in 1987. We categorize each of our subsidiaries into one of three operating segments, based primarily on the industry they serve: Operating Segment % of 2019 Consolidated Net Revenue Semiconductor 78 % SiC/LED 16 % Automation 6 % For information regarding net revenue, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to each of our three operating segments, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in