Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report) and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. Overview We are a leading, global manufacturer of capital equipment, including thermal processing and wafer polishing and related consumables used in fabricating semiconductor devices, such as silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon power devices, analog and discrete devices, electronic assemblies and light-emitting diodes (LEDs). We sell these products to semiconductor device and module manufacturers worldwide, particularly in Asia, North America and Europe. We operate in two reportable business segments, based primarily on the industry they serve: (i) Semiconductor, and (ii) SiC/LED. In our Semiconductor segment, we supply thermal processing equipment, including solder reflow ovens, diffusion furnaces, and custom high-temp belt furnaces for use by semiconductor and electronics assembly manufacturers. In our SiC/LED segment, we produce substrate consumables and machinery for lapping (fine abrading) and polishing of materials, such as silicon wafers for semiconductor products, sapphire wafers for LED applications, and compound substrates, like silicon carbide wafers, for power device applications. Our semiconductor customers are primarily manufacturers of integrated circuits and optoelectronics sensors and discrete (O-S-D) components used in analog, power and radio frequency (RF). The semiconductor industry is cyclical and historically has experienced fluctuations. Our revenue is impacted by these broad industry trends. Although semiconductor demand for our products may have reached its cyclical peak in our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we believe that continued technological advances and emerging industries, such as silicon carbide power devices, will sustain our long-term performance. Strategy We continue to focus on our plans to profitably grow our business and have developed a strategic growth plan and a capital allocation plan that we believe will support our growth objectives. Our strategic growth plan calls for profitable growth as the semi industry recovers, with the following areas of focus: Emerging opportunities in the SiC industry We believe we are well-positioned to take part in this significant growth area, specifically as it relates to silicon carbide wafer capacity expansion. We are working closely with our customers to understand their SiC growth plans and opportunities. We are investing in our capacity, next generation product development, and in our people. We believe these investments will help fuel our growth in the SiC industry. 300mm Horizontal Thermal Reactor We have a highly successful and proven 300mm horizontal diffusion solution for growing power semiconductor applications. We have a strong foundation with the leading 300mm power chip manufacturer, and, in fiscal 2019, we announced an order to another industry-leading manufacturer. In February 2020, we announced another order from a top-tier global power semiconductor customer in Asia, and in August 2020, we announced a repeat order for our 300mm solution. We believe we have a strong opportunity to continue expanding our customer base and grow revenue with our 300mm solution. As a major revenue contributor to our organization, BTU International, Inc. (BTU) will continue to track semi industry growth cycles for our advanced semi-packaging and SMT products, in addition to specialized custom belt furnaces used in automotive and other specialized industrial applications. We believe that through investments in product innovation, BTU has an opportunity to grow further, especially in high growth applications of electric vehicles (EV) and 5G communications. 19 We anticipate that the required investments to achieve our revenue growth targets will be in the range of $6.0 - $8.0 million in research and development and capital expenditures. We may also need to make investments in other areas of our business, such as management information systems and capacity expansions at other existing manufacturing facilities. Our current capacity expansion plans include the relocation of our Shanghai, China manufacturing facility upon the expiration of the current lease in the third quarter of 2021. The new facility will increase capacity in support of our Pyramax product line, serving our Advanced Packaging, other semiconductor packaging and SMT customers. Additionally, as a capital equipment manufacturer, we will need working capital to support and fuel our future growth. We are and will continue to closely scrutinize these planned investments, in light of the COVID-19 challenges, and we may defer some of our projects. However, we intend to continue to invest in our business to support and fuel our future growth. In addition to these investments in our organic growth, another key aspect of our capital allocation policy is our plan to grow through acquisitions. We have the expertise and track record to identify strong acquisition targets in the semi and SiC growth environment and to execute transactions and integrations to provide for value creating, profitable growth in both the short-term and long-term. As of the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we do not have a definitive agreement to acquire any acquisition target. COVID-19 On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization declared an outbreak of COVID-19. In March 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 was recognized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization, and the outbreak has become increasingly widespread, including in all of the markets in which we operate. The COVID-19 outbreak has had a notable impact on general economic conditions, including but not limited to the temporary closures of many businesses; shelter in place and other governmental regulations; and reduced spending due to both job losses and other effects attributable to COVID-19. As a key supplier to essential businesses, we have continued to supply our products and services to those businesses deemed essential businesses in the states in which we operate. However, our business is subject to the general health of the economy and federal and local guidelines and restrictions have significantly curtailed the level of economic activity in affected areas, which include the areas in which we conduct our business. Despite this backdrop, and the natural volatility of the capital equipment markets we serve, we have been successful in mitigating disruptions to our business while limiting operating losses to nominal levels. Although we still do not yet know the full duration and extent the impact of COVID-19 will have on our operations, we currently expect the negative impact to be a temporary trend. We have implemented procedures to maximize our ability to continue to provide products and services to our customers and to mitigate the effect of the downturn on our results of operations, including minimizing costs where appropriate. There remain many unknowns and we continue to monitor the expected trends and related demand for our products and services and have and will continue to adjust our operations accordingly. Please see additional information in Item 1a. Risk Factors. Amtech has a strong financial position with $45.6 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020 and $5.1 million of mortgage-related debt. In addition, we are pursuing relief options available to us, such as deferring social security tax payments, payroll tax credits, and utilizing certain changes in tax loss carryback rules to receive refunds for prior tax years. We are reviewing and implementing actions on an ongoing basis to reduce cash outlays and expenses. As a result of these efforts and our strong balance sheet, we believe we have enough cash to sustain us for at least the next twelve months. However, if the recovery takes longer than expected, we believe we have the ability to make additional adjustments as needed. Solar and Automation Divestitures On April 3, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors (the Board) determined that it was in the long-term best interest of the Company to exit the solar business segment and focus our strategic efforts on our semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing business segments in order to more fully realize the opportunities the Company believes are presented in those areas. We completed the sale of our solar subsidiaries, SoLayTec and Tempress, on June 7, 2019 and January 22, 2020, respectively. Additionally, on December 13, 2019, we completed the sale of our automation division, R2D, to certain members of R2Ds management team. 20 Segment Reporting Changes With the divestiture of our Automation segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we evaluated our organization structure and concluded that we have two reportable business segments following the divestiture. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of sales 58 % 60 % Gross margin 42 % 40 % Selling, general and administrative 29 % 29 % Research, development and engineering 7 % 3 % Operating income 6 % 8 % Loss on sale of subsidiary % (14 )% Interest expense and other, net (1 )% % Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 5 % (6 )% Income tax provision 1 % % Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 4 % (6 )% Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax % (3 )% Net income (loss) 4 % (9 )% In the second quarter of 2019, we began the process to divest our solar business. As such, we have reported the results of the Solar segment as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of revenue recognized upon shipment or installation of equipment, with the exception of products using new technology, for which revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance. Spare parts sales are recognized upon shipment and service revenue is recognized upon completion of the service activity, which is generally ratable over the term of the service contract. Since the majority of our revenue is generated from large system sales, revenue and operating income can be significantly impacted by the timing of system shipments and system acceptances. Our net revenue by operating segment was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2020 2019 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 15,575 $ 17,232 $ (1,657 ) (10 )% SiC/LED 2,400 2,817 (417 ) (15 )% Non-segment related 643 (643 ) (100 )% Total net revenue $ 17,975 $ 20,692 $ (2,717 ) (13 )% Total net revenue for the quarters ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $18.0 million and $20.7 million, respectively, a decrease of approximately $2.7 million or 13%. Our semiconductor segment revenues are dependent on our customers expansions, and our results have been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the global economy due primarily to the impact of the COVID-19 virus, as well as lingering trade tensions between the U.S. and China. We believe the impact from the COVID-19 virus on both our China and U.S. operations are temporary trends, as we experienced a return to near-capacity in our China factory during the third fiscal quarter of 2020. 21 However, we also believe that we will continue to experience some level of volatility in our bookings and shipments as various states and countries experience resurgences of the virus as well as the possible emergence of new strains of the virus . Despite the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 virus, we believe there remains significant potential in the SiC industry and long-term growth in power semiconductor. SiC /LED revenue decreased due to lower machine sales between periods. Non-segment related revenues relate to R2D, the automation division that we divested in December 2019. Backlog and Orders Our backlog as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was as follows (dollars in thousands): December 31, Segment 2020 2019 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 12,750 $ 12,764 $ (14 ) (0 )% SiC/LED 1,049 680 369 54 % Total backlog $ 13,799 $ 13,444 $ 355 3 % New orders booked in the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2020 2019 Incr (Decr) % Change Semiconductor $ 15,483 $ 15,094 $ 389 3 % SiC/LED 2,386 2,531 (145 ) (6 )% Total new orders $ 17,869 $ 17,625 $ 244 1 % As of December 31, 2020, two Semiconductor customers individually accounted for 18% and 11% of our backlog. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our backlog as of December 31, 2020. Four customers accounted for 48% of our backlog as of December 31, 2020. The orders included in our backlog are generally credit approved customer purchase orders believed to be firm and are generally expected to ship within the next twelve months. Because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize profit from completing these orders. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is the difference between net revenue and cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists of purchased material, labor and overhead to manufacture equipment and spare parts and the cost of service and support to customers for installation, warranty and paid service calls. Gross margin is gross profit as a percent of net revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin by operating segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, Segment 2020 Gross Margin 2019 Gross Margin Incr (Decr) Semiconductor $ 6,912 44 % $ 7,186 42 % $ (274 ) SiC/LED 600 25 % 979 35 % (379 ) Non-segment related % 9 1 % (9 ) Total gross profit $ 7,512 42 % $ 8,174 40 % $ (662 ) Gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $7.5 million (42% of net revenue) and $8.2 million (40% of net revenue), respectively, a decrease of $0.7 million. Our gross margins can be affected by capacity utilization and the type and volume of machines and consumables sold each quarter. Gross margin on products from our Semiconductor segment increased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2019, due primarily to favorable product mix. Gross margin on products from our SiC/LED segment decreased compared to 22 the three months ended December 31, 2019 , due primarily to lower revenue spread over higher fixed costs as a result of our capacity expansion in fiscal 2020 . Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) consists of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors, facility costs, sales commissions, shipping costs, promotional marketing expenses, legal and accounting expenses and bad debt expense. SG&A expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $5.2 million and $5.9 million, respectively. SG&A decreased compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to reduced legal fees related to the Solar divestiture, no longer having R2D SG&A included in our results and lower travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering (RD&E) expenses consist of the cost of employees, consultants and contractors who design, engineer and develop new products and processes as well as materials and supplies used in producing prototypes. We receive reimbursements through governmental research and development grants which are netted against these expenses when certain conditions have been met. RD&E expense, net of grants earned, for the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $1.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The increase in RD&E expense is due to increased spending related to product improvement projects at our Semiconductor segment and the development of new products at our SiC/LED segment. Income Taxes For the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recorded income tax expense at our continuing operations of $0.1 million and $41,000, respectively. Tax expense for the three months ended December 31, 2020, includes a benefit of approximately $0.3 million related to the reversal of previously recorded uncertain tax positions. In the three months ended December 31, 2019, we recorded income tax expense of $19,000 in our discontinued operations. The income tax provisions are based upon estimates of annual income, annual permanent differences and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, except that certain loss jurisdictions and discrete items are treated separately. Generally accepted accounting principles require that a valuation allowance be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including a companys performance, the market environment in which the company operates and the length of carryback and carryforward periods. According to those principles, it is difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when the negative evidence includes cumulative losses in recent years. We have concluded that we will maintain a full valuation allowance for all net deferred tax assets related to the carryforwards of U.S. net operating losses and foreign tax credits. We will continue to monitor our cumulative income and loss positions in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to determine whether full valuation allowances on net deferred tax assets are appropriate. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as the amount of income (loss) in each tax jurisdiction, tax regulations governing each region, non-tax deductible expenses incurred as a percent of pre-tax income and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Discontinued Operations As disclosed previously in the Solar and Automation Divestitures section, we announced that our Board determined that it was in the long-term best interest of the Company to exit the solar business segment and focus our strategic efforts on our semiconductor and silicon carbide/polishing business segments in order to more fully realize the opportunities we believe are presented in those areas. The divestitures included our Tempress and SoLayTec 23 subsidiaries, which comprised substantially all of our Solar segment. As such, we reported the results of the Solar segment as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. SoLayTec was sold effective June 7, 2019 , and Tempress was sold effective January 22, 2020 (see Note 11 for additional information) . Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth for the periods presented certain consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 104 $ (168 ) Net cash used in investing activities (198 ) (820 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 42 598 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 596 1,141 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 544 751 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of period* 45,070 59,134 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of period* $ 45,614 $ 59,885 * Includes Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash that are included in Held-For-Sale Assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for periods prior to January 22, 2020. Cash and Cash Flow The increase in cash and cash equivalents from September 30, 2020 of $0.5 million was primarily due to proceeds from the exercise of stock options and the favorable effect of exchange rate changes on our cash balances. We maintain a portion of our cash and cash equivalents in RMB at our Chinese operations; therefore, changes in the exchange rates have an impact on our cash balances. Our working capital was $70.6 million as of December 31, 2020 and $69.1 million as of September 30, 2020. The increase in our working capital occurred primarily due to increases in our accounts receivable and cash balances, which were partially offset by increases in accounts payable and accrued compensation. Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 9.4:1 as of December 31, 2020, and 10.2:1 as of September 30, 2020. The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon the availability of additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to management. Our sources of capital in the past have included the sale of equity securities, which includes common stock sold in private transactions and public offerings, long-term debt and customer deposits. There can be no assurance that we can raise such additional capital resources when needed or on satisfactory terms. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity discussed above are sufficient to support operations for at least the next twelve months. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by our operating activities was approximately $0.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2020, compared to cash used in operating activities of $0.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, an increase of approximately $0.3 million. During the three months ended December 31, 2020, net income adjusted for non-cash items of $1.2 million was mostly offset by $1.1 million of cash used in operations as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, net loss adjusted for non-cash items provided cash of $2.4 million, which was offset by $2.6 million of cash used in operations as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million compared to $0.8 million in the prior year period. The amount for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 relates solely to 24 capital expenditures. The amount for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 reflects the divestiture of our automation business as well as approximately $0. 2 million of capital expenditures . We expect capital expenditures to increase throughout 2021 as we initiate and complete the relocation of our Semiconductor manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China after the current lease expires in the third quarter of 2021 . Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended December 31, 2020, $42,000 of cash provided by financing activities was comprised of approximately $135,000 of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which was mostly offset by payments on long-term debt of $93,000. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, $0.6 million of cash provided by financing activities was comprised of $0.7 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by payments on long-term debt of $0.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Unrecorded purchase obligations at our continuing operations were $4.7 million as of December 31, 2020, compared to $4.6 million as of September 30, 2020, an increase of $0.1 million. There were no other material changes to the contractual obligations included in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2020. Critical Accounting Policies Part I, Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Quarterly Report discusses our condensed consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, accounts and notes receivable collectability, warranty and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates and judgments form the basis for making conclusions about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2020. We believe our critical accounting policies relate to the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe the critical accounting policies discussed in the section entitled Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 represent the most significant judgments and estimates 25 used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. T here have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended December 31, 2020 . Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Part I, Item 1. Financial Information under Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.