Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbor created under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections regarding our future financial performance, particularly in light of sovereign debt issues globally; declines in customer demand for our products; our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses; our future capital needs and capital expenditures; our future market position and expected competitive changes in the marketplace for our products; our ability to innovate new products and technologies; the timing or the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations and reduce our cost structure and the expected amounts of any cost savings related to those efforts; our ability to access credit or capital markets; our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock; our ability to service our outstanding debt; our expected tax rate; the future actions of our third-party suppliers; our reliance on assembly and test subcontractors, third party wafer fabricators and independent distributors; the expected outcomes of intellectual property and litigation matters; the ability to safeguard our patents and intellectual property; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the expected activities of our key personnel; the global nature of our operations; the effect of new accounting pronouncements; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by law. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview We are a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of a broad portfolio of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing integrated circuits (ICs) used in virtually all types of electronic equipment. Since our inception in 1965, we have focused on solving the engineering challenges associated with signal processing in electronic equipment. Our signal processing products play a fundamental role in converting, conditioning, and processing real-world phenomena such as temperature, pressure, sound, light, speed and motion into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic devices. As new generations of digital applications evolve, new needs for high-performance analog signal processing and digital signal processing (DSP) technology are generated. As a result, we produce a wide range of innovative products including data converters, amplifiers and linear products, radio frequency (RF) ICs, power management products, sensors based on micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) technology and other sensors, and processing products, including DSP and other processors that are designed to meet the needs of a broad base of customers. We focus on key strategic markets where our signal processing technology is often a critical differentiator in our customers products, in particular, the industrial, automotive, consumer and communications markets. Used by over 60,000 customers worldwide, our products are embedded inside many different types of electronic equipment including: Industrial process control systems Medical imaging equipment Factory automation systems Patient monitoring devices Instrumentation and measurement systems Wireless infrastructure equipment Energy management systems Networking equipment Aerospace and defense electronics Optical systems Automobiles Digital cameras Digital televisions Portable electronic devices We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in Massachusetts. Our headquarters are near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts. In addition, we have manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, Ireland, and the Philippines, and have more than thirty design facilities worldwide. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard & Poors 500 Index. Available Information We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including exhibits), and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also make available on our website our corporate governance guidelines, the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance committee, our equity award granting policies, our code of business conduct and ethics which applies to our directors, officers and employees, and our related person transaction policy, and such information is available in print and free of charge to any shareholder of Analog Devices who requests it. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC or the NYSE. Industry Background Semiconductor components are the electronic building blocks used in electronic systems and equipment. These components are classified as either discrete devices (such as individual transistors) or integrated circuits (in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated electronic circuit). Integrated circuits may be divided into two general categories, digital and analog. Digital circuits, such as memory 2 devices and microprocessors, generally process on-off electrical signals, represented by binary digits, 1 and 0. In contrast, analog integrated circuits monitor, condition, amplify or transform continuous analog signals associated with physical properties, such as temperature, pressure, weight, light, sound or motion, and play an important role in bridging between real world phenomena and a variety of electronic systems. Analog ICs also provide voltage regulation and power control to electronic systems. Organizational Structure We operate in one reporting segment, which is comprised of two separate groups, one focused on products and one focused on end markets. The product group is focused on core technology development and leadership in converters, amplifiers and RF, MEMS, power management, and DSP. The end market-focused organization is dedicated to understanding, selecting, and resourcing initiatives that are more customized to a particular market or application. The focus of this team is to apply the full expanse of our broad technology portfolio to more integrated and targeted product strategies for the industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications markets. The end market group includes our sales organization. These two groups collaborate at all levels. On the one hand, our product group develops key technology for use by the end market groups, which apply these technologies to specific applications. Equally important, the applications expertise within each end market group is used to enhance core technology development by our product group. Principal Products We design, manufacture and market a broad line of high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to address a wide range of real-world signal processing applications. Our product portfolio includes both general-purpose products used by a broad range of customers and applications, as well as application-specific products designed for specific clusters of customers in key target markets. By using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing more customized ICs, our standard products often provide a cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume applications. However, for some industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications products, we focus on working with leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We begin with our existing core technologies in data conversion, amplification, RF, MEMS, power management and DSP, and devise a solution to more closely meet the needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we have already developed the core technology for our general-purpose products, we can create application-specific solutions quickly. We produce and market several thousand products and operate in one reporting segment. Our ten highest revenue products, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 8% of our revenue for fiscal 2011. A breakdown of our fiscal 2011 revenue by product category follows. Percent of FY 2011 Product Category Revenue Converters 45 % Amplifiers/ Radio frequency 26 % Other analog 14 % Power management & reference 7 % Digital signal processing 8 % Analog Products Our analog and mixed signal IC technology has been the foundation of our business for over four decades, and we are one of the worlds largest suppliers of high-performance analog ICs. Our analog signal processing ICs are primarily high-performance devices, offering higher dynamic range, greater bandwidth, and other enhanced features. The principal advantages these products have versus competitors products include higher accuracy, higher speed, lower cost per function, smaller size, lower power consumption and fewer components, resulting in 3 improved reliability. Our product portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, any one of which can have as many as several hundred customers. Our analog ICs typically have long product life cycles. Our analog IC customers include original equipment manufacturers OEMs and customers who build electronic subsystems for integration into larger systems. Converters We are a leading supplier of data converter products. Data converters translate real-world analog signals into digital data and also translate digital data into analog signals. Data converters remain our largest and most diverse product family and an area where we are continuously innovating to enable our customers to redefine and differentiate their products. Our converter products combine sampling rates and accuracy with the low noise, power, price and small package size required by industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications electronics. Amplifiers/Radio Frequency We are also a leading supplier of high-performance amplifiers. Amplifiers are used to condition analog signals. High performance amplifiers emphasize the performance dimensions of speed and precision. Within this product portfolio we provide precision, instrumentation, high speed, intermediate frequency/RF, broadband, and other amplifiers. We also offer an extensive portfolio of precision voltage references that are used in a wide variety of applications. Our analog product line also includes a broad portfolio of high performance RF ICs covering the entire RF signal chain, from industry-leading stand-alone RF function blocks such as phase locked loops, frequency synthesizers, mixers, modulators, demodulators, and power detectors, to highly integrated broadband and short-range single chip transceiver solutions. Our high performance RF ICs support the high performance requirements of cellular infrastructure and a broad range of applications in our target markets. Other Analog Also within our analog technology portfolio are products that are based on Micro-ElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) technology. This technology enables us to build extremely small sensors that incorporate an electromechanical structure and the supporting analog circuitry for conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. Our MEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to sense acceleration, gyroscopes used to sense rotation, inertial measurement units used to sense multiple degrees of freedom combining multiple sensing types along multiple axis, and MEMS microphones used to sense audio. The majority of our current revenue from MEMS products is derived from the automotive, industrial, healthcare, and consumer end markets. In addition to our MEMs our other analog product category includes isolators that enable designers to implement isolation in designs without the cost, size, power, performance, and reliability constraints found with optocouplers. Our isolators have been designed into hundreds of applications, such as universal serial bus isolation in patient monitors, where it allows hospitals and physicians to adopt the latest advances in computer technology to supervise patient health and wirelessly transmit medical records. In smart metering applications, our isolators provide reliable electrostatic discharge performance that helps reduce meter tampering. Likewise, in satellites, where any malfunction can be catastrophic, our isolators help protect the power system while enabling designers to achieve small form factors. Power Management & Reference Power management & reference products make up the balance of our analog sales. Those products that include functions such as power conversion, driver monitoring, sequencing and energy management, are developed to complement analog signal chain components across core market segments from micro power, energy-sensitive battery applications to efficient, high performance power systems in infrastructure and industrial applications. Digital Signal Processing Products Digital Signal Processing products (DSPs) complete our product portfolio. DSPs are optimized for high-speed numeric calculations, which are essential for instantaneous, or real-time, processing of digital data generated, in most cases, from analog to digital signal conversion. Our DSPs are designed to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute specialized software programs, or algorithms, associated with processing digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs are designed to provide the flexibility to modify the devices function quickly and inexpensively using software. Our general-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own algorithms using software development tools provided by us and third-party suppliers. Our DSPs are designed in families of 4 products that share common architectures and therefore can execute the same software across a range of products. We support these products with easy-to-use development tools, which are designed to reduce our customers product development costs and time-to-market. Our customers use our products to solve a wide range of signal processing challenges across our core market and segment focus areas within the industrial, automotive, consumer and communications end markets. As an integrated part of our customers signal chain, there are typically many other Analog Devices products connected to our processors including converters, audio and video codecs and power management solutions. Markets and Applications During fiscal year 2011, we consolidated the computer end market, which represented approximately 1% of fiscal 2011 revenue, into the consumer end market, and reclassified handset revenue, which represented approximately 3% of fiscal 2011 revenue, from the communications end market to the consumer end market for all periods presented. The breakdown of our fiscal 2011 revenue by end market is set out in the table below. Percent of FY 2011 End Market Revenue* Industrial 47 % Automotive 14 % Consumer 20 % Communications 20 % * The sum of the individual percentages do not equal 100% due to rounding. The following describes some of the characteristics of, and customer products within, our major end markets: Industrial Our industrial market includes the following sectors: Industrial and Instrumentation Our industrial automation applications generally require ICs that offer performance greater than that available from commodity-level ICs but generally do not have production volumes that warrant custom ICs. There is a trend towards development of products focused on particular sub-applications, which incorporate combinations of analog, mixed-signal, and DSP ICs to achieve the necessary functionality. Our instrumentation customers differentiate themselves by using the highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available. Our industrial and instrumentation market includes applications such as: Process control systems Oscilloscopes Robotics Lab, chemical, and environmental analyzers Environmental control systems Weigh scales Defense/Aerospace The defense, commercial avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this market are specially tested versions of products derived from our standard product offering. Customer products include: Navigation systems Radar systems Space and satellite communications Security devices Energy Management The desire to improve energy efficiency, conservation, reliability, and cleanliness is driving investments in renewable energy, power transmission and distribution systems, electric meters, and other innovative areas. The common characteristic behind these efforts is the addition of sensing, measurement, and communication technologies to electrical infrastructure. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as: Utility meters Wind turbines Meter communication modules Solar inverters Substation relays and automation equipment Building energy automation/control 5 Healthcare Two significant trends in the healthcare market today are the increasing need for higher channel counts in medical systems to improve resolution and throughput while achieving a lower cost per channel, and the movement of highly accurate patient monitoring devices from the hospital environment to the home, improving patient care and reducing overall healthcare costs. Our innovative technologies are designed into a variety of high performance imaging, patient monitoring, medical instrumentation, and home health devices. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as: Ultrasound Infusion pumps CT scanners Clinical lab instrumentation Digital x-ray Surgical instrumentation Multi-parameter patient monitors Blood analyzers Pulse oximeters Activity monitors Automotive We develop differentiated high performance signal processing solutions that enable sophisticated automotive systems addressing the three industry macrotrends namely greener, safer and more comfort. Through collaboration with manufacturers worldwide, ADI has achieved significant market share through a broad portfolio of analog, digital and MEMS ICs that increase fuel efficiency, enhance vehicle stability and improve the audio/video experience of the passengers. Specifically, we have developed products used in applications such as: Green Safety Comfort Hybrid electric / electric vehicles Crash sensors in airbag systems Car audio amplifiers Intelligent battery sensors Electronic stability systems Head unit solutions Battery monitoring and management systems Advanced driver assistance systems (RADAR/Vision) Rear seat entertainment systems Vehicle dynamic control systems Consumer Market demand for digital entertainment systems and the consumer demand for high quality voice transmissions, music, movies and photographs with a high degree of interactivity have allowed us to combine analog and digital design capability to provide solutions that meet the rigorous cost and time-to-market requirements of the consumer electronics market. The emergence of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products has created a market for our high-performance ICs with a high level of specific functionality. These products include: Digital cameras High-performance audio/video equipment High-definition televisions and DVD recorders/players Portable media devices (cellular handsets, smart phones and tablets) Home theater systems Computers Communications The development of broadband, wireless and Internet infrastructures around the world has created an important market for our communications products. Communications technology involves the acquisition of analog signals that are converted from analog to digital and digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient communications, has been creating demand for our products. Our products are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for internet protocol, video streaming and voice communication. In wireless and broadband communication applications, our products are incorporated into: Cellular basestation equipment Wired networking equipment Wireless backhowl systems Satellite systems See Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about our products by category and end market. Research and Development Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the design and development of new products and manufacturing processes, and the improvement of existing products and manufacturing processes. We spent approximately $506 million during fiscal 2011 on the design, development and improvement of new and existing products and manufacturing processes, compared to approximately $492 million during fiscal 2010 and approximately $447 million during fiscal 2009. 6 Our research and development strategy focuses on building technical leadership in core technologies of converters, amplifiers and RF, MEMS, power management, and DSP. In support of our research and development activities, we employ thousands of engineers involved in product and manufacturing process development throughout the world. Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks and trade secrets. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, mask works and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. As of October 29, 2011, we held approximately 1,700 U.S. patents and approximately 700 non-provisional pending U.S. patent applications. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. While our patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks and trade secrets provide some advantage and protection, we believe our competitive position and future success is largely determined by such factors as the system and application knowledge, innovative skills, technological expertise and management ability and experience of our personnel; the range and success of new products being developed by us; our market brand recognition and ongoing marketing efforts; and customer service and technical support. It is generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions, if we determine other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, to be more advantageous. We also have trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business to distinguish genuine Analog Devices products and we maintain cooperative advertising programs to promote our brands and identify products containing genuine Analog Devices components. Sales Channels We sell our products globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via our website. We have direct sales offices, sales representatives and/or distributors in over 40 countries outside North America. We support our worldwide technical direct field sales efforts by an extensive promotional program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade publications, direct mail programs, promotional brochures, technical seminars and participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute product catalogs, applications guides, technical handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. We also provide this information and sell products via our website. We maintain a staff of field application engineers who aid customers in incorporating our products into their products. In addition, we offer a variety of web-based tools that ease product selection and aid in the design process for our customers. We derived approximately 55% of our fiscal 2011 revenue from sales made through distributors. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell products that compete with our products, including those for which we are an alternate source. In all regions of the world, we defer revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. We make sales to distributors under agreements that allow distributors to receive price adjustment credits and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of our shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, distributors are allowed to return unsold products if we terminate the relationship with the distributor. Additional information relating to our sales to distributors is set forth in Note 2n in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Segment Financial Information and Geographic Information We operate and track our results in one reportable segment based on the aggregation of five operating segments. 7 Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 82% of our revenue from customers in international markets. Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies and regulations of foreign governments. Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, our competitive position may be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against other currencies. The categorization of sales into geographic regions set forth below is based upon the location of the customer. Geographic Area % of FY 2011 Revenue United States 18 % Rest of North/South America 6 % Europe 28 % Japan 13 % China 20 % Rest of Asia 15 % For further detail regarding revenue and financial information about our industry, segment and geographic areas, see our Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 in the related Notes contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide. No sales to an individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year 2011, 2010, or 2009 revenue. These customers used hundreds of different types of our products in a wide range of applications spanning the industrial, automotive, consumer and communication markets. Our largest single customer, excluding distributors, represented approximately 4% of our fiscal 2011 revenue. Our 20 largest customers, excluding distributors, accounted for approximately 32% of our fiscal 2011 revenue. Seasonality Sales to customers during our first fiscal quarter may be lower than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our revenue is more likely to be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by cyclicality in the semiconductor industry. Production and Raw Materials Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual chips, or dice, assembly of the dice into packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for packaging. We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary manufacturing processes that are specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance analog, DSP, mixed-signal and MEMS ICs. We also use bipolar and complementary metal-oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, wafer fabrication processes. Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities and by third-party wafer fabricators. Our products are manufactured in our own wafer fabrication facilities using proprietary processes and at third-party wafer-fabrication foundries using sub-micron digital CMOS processes. A significant portion of our revenue in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was from products fabricated at third-party wafer-fabrication facilities, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington, 8 Massachusetts and Limerick, Ireland. We also operate test facilities located in the Philippines and use third-party subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our products. Capital spending was approximately $123.0 million in fiscal 2011, compared with approximately $111.6 million in fiscal 2010. We currently plan to make capital expenditures in the range of approximately $100 million to $125 million in fiscal 2012. Our products require a wide variety of components, raw materials and external foundry services, most of which we purchase from third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for many of the components and materials that we purchase and incorporate into our products. However, a large portion of our external wafer purchases and foundry services are from a limited number of suppliers, primarily TSMC. If TSMC or any of our other key suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of components to us, on the time schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in significant expenses and disruptions or delays in manufacturing, product development and shipment of product to our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of components, materials and external foundry services from time to time, these items have generally been available to us as needed. Backlog Backlog at the end of fiscal 2011 was approximately $379 million, down from approximately $563 million at the end of fiscal 2010. We define backlog as of a particular date to mean firm orders from a customer or distributor with a requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to be cancelled or deliveries to be delayed by customers without significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should not be used as an indication of our future revenue. We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customers unique requirements so that those cancelled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for some of our products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Government Contracts We estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal 2011 revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and U.S. government contractors and subcontractors. Our government contract business is predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm, fixed-price subcontracts. Most of these contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination at the election of the U.S. government. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. From time to time, we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen our business. Additional information relating to our acquisition and divestiture activities during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in Note 2u and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Competition We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for signal processing products depends upon multiple factors, including technological innovation, strength of brand, diversity of product portfolio, product performance, technical support, delivery capabilities, customer service quality, reliability and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets, and customers. We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets that are highly competitive. Our competitors include but are not limited to: Broadcom Corporation Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. Cirrus Logic, Inc. Microchip Technology, Inc. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. NXP Semiconductors Infineon Technologies ST Microelectronics Intersil Corporation Silicon Laboratories, Inc. Knowles Electronics Texas Instruments, Inc. Linear Technology Corporation We believe that our technical innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by our commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables us to make a fundamental difference to our customers competiveness in our chosen markets. Environment, Health and Safety We are committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We endeavor to adhere to applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulatory and industry standards across all of our facilities, and to encourage pollution prevention, reduce our water and energy consumption, reduce waste generation, and strive towards continual improvement. We strive to achieve excellence in EHS management practices as an integral part of our total quality management system. Our management systems are certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and TS16949. We are a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, (EICC). Our Sustainability Report, first published in 2009, states our commitment to consuming less energy and applying fair labor standards, among other things. We are not including the information contained in our Sustainability Report in, or incorporating it by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state local and foreign EHS laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the transportation, storage, handling, use, emission, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent regulations regarding chemical content in jurisdictions where we sell products, including the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive in the European Union and China and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directive in the European Union. Contracts with many of our customers reflect these and additional EHS compliance standards. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. There can be no assurance, however, that current or future environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and contractual obligations could result in fines, suspension of production, the need to alter manufacturing processes and legal liability. Employees As of October 29, 2011, we employed approximately 9,200 individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly-skilled design, process, test and applications engineers involved in the design, support and manufacture of new and existing products and processes. We believe that relations with our employees are good; however, the competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. There is significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. High unemployment rates, weakness in commercial and residential real estate markets and the tightening of credit by financial institutions may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. Financial turmoil may cause financial institutions to consolidate or go out of business, which increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair value assigned to them. During the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. Some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and as these programs conclude, those businesses could be negatively impacted. The continuing debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. In addition, the recent downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the ongoing European debt crisis have contributed to the instability in global credit markets. We are unable to predict the impact of these events, and if economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate. Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets; changes in customer demand for our products and for end products that incorporate our products; the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations, including our ability to reduce our cost structure in both the short term and over a longer duration; the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or our competitors; competitive pricing pressures; fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity; the ability of our third party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers to supply us with sufficient quantities of products or components; any significant decline in our backlog; the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory; our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers; changes in geographic, product or customer mix; our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels; 11 potential significant litigation-related costs; the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials; the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide environmental regulations; changes in our effective tax rates in the United States, Ireland or worldwide; and the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; the jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; the lack of sufficient excess tax benefits (credits) in our additional paid in capital (APIC) pool in situations where our realized tax deductions for certain stock-based compensation awards are less than those originally anticipated; changes in available tax credits; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. Long-term contracts are not typical for us and reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results. We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customers unique requirements so that those cancelled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to innovate, improve our products, develop and market new products, and identify and enter new markets. Our success significantly depends on our continued ability to improve our products and develop and market innovative new products. Product development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our products generally must conform to various evolving and sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us to incur significant costs. In addition, our 12 customers generally impose very high quality and reliability standards on our products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy customer quality standards or comply with industry standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth is dependent on our continued ability to identify and penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. Also, some of our customers in these markets are less established, which could subject us to increased credit risk. There can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not force price reductions or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future. We face intense technological and pricing competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside the United States. Many other companies offer products that compete with our products. Some have (or as a result of consolidation within the industry may have) greater financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products in markets we serve. Competition is generally based on design and quality of products, product performance, features and functionality, and product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition in certain markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes and assembly and test services, and generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply. We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, and third-party wafer fabricators to supply most of our wafers that can be manufactured using industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. Additionally, we utilize a limited number of third-party wafer fabricators, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers. A significant portion of our revenue for fiscal 2011 was from products fabricated at third-party wafer-fabrication facilities, primarily TSMC. The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly. If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive 13 resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Our semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed. We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers have on occasion been sued, and may in the future be sued, by third parties with respect to infringement or other product matters, and those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them. In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant. If any of our products contains defects, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are involved in frequent litigation, including regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to bring or defend and could require us to redesign products or pay significant royalties. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our contractual obligations to indemnify our customers. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid. From time to time, we receive claims from third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and 14 potential liabilities. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of our customers products due to an alleged failure of components we supply. An adverse outcome in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. We may be subject to network disruptions or security breaches that could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. We may be subject to network disruptions or security breaches caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, acts of vandalism by third parties or terrorism. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation, which could harm our business and operating results. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees. To remain competitive, we may need to acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products. An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to find businesses that 15 have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts. Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking significant acquisitions. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. We may not be able to find financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders. Acquisitions also involve a number of risks, including: difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing businesses; diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets; strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which may be significant; potential loss of key employees; exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. We rely on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and services. We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the impact of earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry, including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide. For example, in March 2011, a severe earthquake and tsunami hit Japan, which together with resulting damage to certain nuclear power plants created widespread destruction and economic uncertainty in that region. Japan represented approximately 13% of our revenue in fiscal 2011. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal and other risks through our significant worldwide operations. We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities outside the United States, including in Ireland and the Philippines. During fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 82% of our revenue from customers in international markets. Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against other currencies. Potential interest rate increases, as well as high energy costs, could have an adverse impact on industrial and consumer spending patterns and could adversely impact demand for our products. At October 29, 2011, our principal source of liquidity was $3,592.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. As of October 29, 2011, approximately $1,170.5 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign 16 earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, through borrowings under our current credit facility or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in the semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic, political and legal risks inherent in international operations, including the risks associated with the recent crisis in global credit and financial markets, ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world, as well as economic disruption from acts of terrorism and the response to them by the United States and its allies. Other business risks associated with global operations include increased managerial complexities, air transportation disruptions, expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange rate movement, additional costs related to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rate increases, exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license requirements and restrictions, difficulties in staffing and managing worldwide operations, and accounts receivable collections. We expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China. Our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by Chinas continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, environmental regulations, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors. A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our initiative or the distributors initiative, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are subject to increasingly strict environmental health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to increasingly strict EHS requirements, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Public attention to environmental concerns continues to increase, and our customers routinely include stringent environmental standards in their contracts with us. Changes in environmental laws or regulations may require us to invest in costly equipment or alter the way our products are made. In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such materials. Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with statutory or regulatory standards or contractual obligations could result in liability for damages, penalties, and civil and criminal fines, and might damage our reputation, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our operating results. 17 New climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the U.S. Congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. EPA is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. There is no assurance that the cost to comply with current or future EHS laws and regulations will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, any failure by us to comply with applicable EHS requirements or contractual obligations could result in penalties, civil and criminal fines, suspension of or changes to production, legal liability and damage to our reputation. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our two issuances of $375 million senior unsecured notes or our $145 million term loan facility. In fiscal 2009, we issued in a public offering $375 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior unsecured notes due July 1, 2014. In April 2011, we issued in a public offering $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016. In December 2010, Analog Devices Holdings B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, entered into a $145 million term loan facility which matures on December 22, 2013. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes; sell selected assets; reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, including the notes or our term loan facility, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be possible on economically favorable terms. Restrictions in our revolving credit and term loan facilities and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities. Our current revolving credit and term loan facilities and our 5.0% and 3.0% senior unsecured notes impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject, may impose restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition, our credit and term loan facilities require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our credit or term loan facilities or the indenture governing our outstanding notes and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable. 18 Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be significantly affected by the following factors: crises in global credit, debt and financial markets; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to perform in line with those estimates or our published guidance; changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation or capital commitments; departures of key personnel; actual or perceived noncompliance with corporate responsibility or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and negative media publicity targeting us or our competitors. The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our operating results. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts. Manufacturing and other operations are conducted in several locations worldwide. The following tables provide certain information about our principal general offices and manufacturing facilities: Principal Properties Owned: Use Floor Space Wilmington, MA Wafer fabrication, testing, engineering, marketing and administrative offices 586,200 sq. ft. Cavite, Philippines Wafer probe and testing, warehouse, engineering and administrative offices 596,900 sq. ft. Limerick, Ireland Wafer fabrication, wafer probe and testing, engineering and administrative offices 446,500 sq. ft. Greensboro, NC Product testing, engineering and administrative offices 98,700 sq. ft. San Jose, CA Engineering, administrative offices 76,700 sq. ft. Manila, Philippines Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative offices 74,000 sq. ft. Principal Properties Lease Leased: Use Floor Space Expiration Renewals (fiscal year) Norwood, MA Corporate headquarters, engineering, components testing, sales and marketing offices 130,000 sq. ft. 2022 2, five-yr. periods Greensboro, NC Engineering and administrative offices 47,600 sq. ft. 2013 1, one-yr. period In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the above table, we also lease sales offices and other premises at 21 locations in the United States and 36 locations internationally under operating lease agreements. These leases expire at various dates through the year 2022. We do not anticipate experiencing significant difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of our manufacturing, office or sales facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or through month-to-month occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent facilities. For information concerning our obligations under all operating leases see Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 20 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced against us arising from, or related to, contractual matters, patents, trademarks, personal injury, environmental matters, product liability, insurance coverage and personnel and employment disputes. As to such claims and litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail. We do not believe that any current legal matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. (REMOVED AND RESERVED) 21 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following table sets forth (i) the name, age and position of each of our executive officers and (ii) the business experience of each person named in the table during at least the past five years. There is no family relationship among any of our executive officers. Executive Officer Age Position(s) Business Experience Ray Stata 77 Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Board since 1973; Chief Executive Officer from 1973 to November 1996; President from 1971 to November 1991. Jerald G. Fishman 65 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Chief Executive Officer since November 1996; President and Director since November 1991; Executive Vice President from 1988 to November 1991; Group Vice President Components from 1982 to 1988. David A. Zinsner 42 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since January 2009; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Intersil Corporation from 2005 to December 2008; Corporate Controller and Treasurer Intersil Corporation from 2000 to 2005. Corporate Treasurer Intersil Corporation from 1999 to 2000. Seamus Brennan 60 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from April 2011;Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from December 2008 to April 2011; Corporate Controller from 2002 to December 2008; Assistant Corporate Controller from 1997 to 2002; Manager Enterprise System Implementation from 1994 to 1997; Plant Controller, Analog Devices, B.V. Limerick, Ireland from 1989 to 1994. Samuel H. Fuller 65 Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer Vice President, Research and Development since March 1998; Chief Technology Officer since March 2006; Vice President of Research and Chief Scientist of Digital Equipment Corp. from 1983 to 1998. Robert R. Marshall 57 Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing since February 1994; Vice President, Manufacturing, Limerick Site, Analog Devices, B.V. Limerick, Ireland from November 1991 to February 1994; Plant Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. Limerick, Ireland from January 1991 to November 1991. 22 Executive Officer Age Position(s) Business Experience William Matson 52 Vice President, Human Resources Vice President, Human Resources since November 2006; Chief Human Resource Officer of Lenovo, an international computer manufacturer, from January 2005 to June 2006; General Manager of IBM Business Transformation Outsourcing from September 2003 to April 2005; Vice President, Human Resources of IBM Asia Pacific Region from December 1999 to September 2003. Robert McAdam 60 Vice President, Core Products and Technologies Group Vice President, Core Products and Technologies Group since October 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Analog Semiconductor Components from February 1994 to September 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. Limerick, Ireland from January 1991 to February 1994; Product Line Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. Limerick, Ireland from October 1988 to January 1991. Vincent Roche 51 Vice President, Strategic Market Segments Group Vice President, Strategic Segments Group and Global Sales since October 2009; Vice President, Worldwide Sales from March 2001 to October 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Silicon Valley Business Units and Computer & Networking from 1999 to March 2001; Product Line Director from 1995 to 1999; Product Marketing Manager from 1988 to 1995. Margaret K. Seif 50 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2006; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RSA Security Inc. from January 2000 to November 2005; Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RSA Security Inc. from June 1998 to January 2000. 23 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ADI. The tables below set forth the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and the dividends declared for each quarterly period within our two most recent fiscal years. High and Low Sales Prices of Common Stock Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2010 Period High Low High Low First Quarter $ 39.86 $ 33.18 $ 32.19 $ 25.26 Second Quarter $ 41.66 $ 36.29 $ 31.50 $ 26.38 Third Quarter $ 43.28 $ 34.02 $ 31.37 $ 26.28 Fourth Quarter $ 37.75 $ 29.23 $ 34.09 $ 27.45 Dividends Declared Per Outstanding Share of Common Stock In fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, we paid a cash dividend in each quarter as follows: Period Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2010 First Quarter $ 0.22 $ 0.20 Second Quarter $ 0.22 $ 0.20 Third Quarter $ 0.25 $ 0.22 Fourth Quarter $ 0.25 $ 0.22 During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, on November 18, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on December 21, 2011 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on December 2, 2011. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be based on several factors including our financial performance, outlook and liquidity. Information regarding our equity compensation plans and the securities authorized for issuance thereunder is set forth in Item 12 below. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Approximate Dollar Total Number of Shares Value of Shares that Total Number of Purchased as Part of May Yet Be Purchased Shares Average Price Paid Publicly Announced Under the Plans or Period Purchased(a) Per Share(b) Plans or Programs(c) Programs July 31, 2011 through August 27, 2011 205,946 $ 31.72 205,946 $ 797,794,699 August 28, 2011 through September 24, 2011 486,038 $ 32.72 485,027 $ 781,928,623 September 25, 2011 through October 29, 2011 1,847,688 $ 32.71 1,847,099 $ 721,510,868 Total 2,539,672 $ 32.63 2,538,072 $ 721,510,868 (a) Includes 1,600 shares paid to us by employees to satisfy employee tax obligations upon vesting of restricted stock granted to our employees under our equity compensation plans. (b) The average price paid per share of stock repurchased under the stock repurchase program includes the commissions paid to the brokers. 24 (c) Shares repurchased pursuant to the stock repurchase program publicly announced on August 12, 2004. In the aggregate, our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions. Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. The number of holders of record of our common stock at November 16, 2011 was 2,769. This number does not include shareholders for whom shares are held in a nominee or street name. On October 28, 2011, the last reported sales price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $37.70 per share. Comparative Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock since October 28, 2006 with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index and the Standard & Poors Semiconductors Index. This graph assumes the investment of $100 on October 28, 2006 in our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Semiconductors Index and assumes all dividends are reinvested. Measurement points are the last trading day for each respective fiscal year. 25 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table includes selected financial data for each of our last five fiscal years and includes adjustments to reflect the classification of our Baseband Chipset Business and our CPU voltage regulation and PC thermal monitoring business as discontinued operations. See Note 2u in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on discontinued operations. (thousands, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations data: Total revenue from continuing operations $ 2,993,320 $ 2,761,503 $ 2,014,908 $ 2,582,931 $ 2,464,721 Income from continuing operations, net of tax 860,894 711,225 247,408 525,177 502,123 Total income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 6,500 859 364 261,107 (5,216 ) Net income 867,394 712,084 247,772 786,284 496,907 Income per share from continuing operations, net of tax: Basic 2.88 2.39 0.85 1.79 1.55 Diluted 2.79 2.33 0.85 1.77 1.51 Net income per share Basic 2.90 2.39 0.85 2.69 1.54 Diluted 2.81 2.33 0.85 2.65 1.50 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.94 0.84 0.80 0.76 0.70 Balance Sheet data: Total assets $ 5,277,635 $ 4,328,831 $ 3,369,407 $ 3,081,132 $ 2,967,276 Long term debt $ 886,376 $ 400,635 $ 379,626 $ $ 26 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (all tabular amounts in thousands except per share amounts) During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we sold our baseband chipset business and related support operations, or Baseband Chipset Business, to MediaTek Inc. and sold our CPU voltage regulation and PC thermal monitoring business to certain subsidiaries of ON Semiconductor Corporation. The financial results of these businesses are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, this Managements Discussion and Analysis relates only to financial results from continuing operations. Results of Operations Overview Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Revenue $ 2,993,320 $ 2,761,503 $ 2,014,908 Gross Margin % 66.4 % 65.2 % 55.5 % Net income from Continuing Operations $ 860,894 $ 711,225 $ 247,408 Net income from Continuing Operations as a % of Revenue 28.8 % 25.8 % 12.3 % Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations $ 2.79 $ 2.33 $ 0.85 Diluted EPS $ 2.81 $ 2.33 $ 0.85 The year-to-year revenue changes by end market and product category are more fully outlined below under Revenue Trends by End Market and Revenue Trends by Product . During fiscal 2011, our revenue increased 8%, as compared to fiscal 2010. Our diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased to $2.79 in fiscal 2011 from $2.33 in fiscal 2010. Cash flow from operations in fiscal 2011 was $900.5 million or 30% of revenue. We received proceeds of $515.5 million during fiscal 2011 from the issuance of $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes and from a $145 million term loan facility entered into by a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. In addition, we received $217.2 million in net proceeds from employee stock option exercises. During fiscal 2011, we repurchased a total of approximately 9.0 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of $330.3 million, distributed $281.6 million to our shareholders in dividend payments and paid $123.0 million for property, plant and equipment additions. These factors contributed to the net increase in cash and cash equivalents of $335.1 million in fiscal 2011. The year-to-year increase in revenue and profitability for fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of improved global macro-economic conditions during the first half of the fiscal year. The strong growth we experienced in the first six months of fiscal 2011, including a 9% sequential revenue increase in our second fiscal quarter, was followed by sequential revenue declines in both the third and fourth fiscal quarters. The 9% sequential revenue increase in the second fiscal quarter included increased inventory stocking by our customers as a result of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. During the third and fourth quarters, of fiscal 2011, we began to see revenue declines attributable to inventory corrections following the inventory buildup in the prior quarters and declining demand as the deficit and credit related crisis in Europe and the U.S. caused customers to become more cautious in the second half of fiscal 2011. Revenue Trends by End Market The following table summarizes revenue by end market. The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the sold to customer information, the ship to customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time. When this occurs, we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market. During fiscal year 2011, we consolidated the computer end market, which represented approximately 1% of fiscal 2011 revenue, into the consumer end market, and reclassified handset 27 revenue, which represented approximately 3% of fiscal 2011 revenue, from the communications end market to the consumer end market for all periods presented. 2011 2010 2009 % of % of % of Total Total Total Product Product Product Revenue Revenue* Y/Y% Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Industrial $ 1,397,634 47 % 10 % $ 1,267,736 46 % $ 860,696 43 % Automotive 415,444 14 % 25 % 333,644 12 % 200,329 10 % Consumer 586,945 20 % (6 )% 626,565 23 % 508,848 25 % Communications 593,297 20 % 11 % 533,558 19 % 445,035 22 % Total Revenue $ 2,993,320 100 % 8 % $ 2,761,503 100 % $ 2,014,908 100 % * The sum of the individual percentages do not equal the total due to rounding. Industrial The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 in industrial end market revenue was primarily the result of a broad-based increase in demand in this end market, which was most significant for products sold into the automation and instrumentation sectors and, to a lesser extent, products sold into the energy and healthcare sectors. The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 in industrial end market revenue was primarily the result of a broad-based increase in demand in this end market, which was most significant for products sold into the instrumentation and automation sectors. Automotive The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 in automotive end market revenue was primarily the result of a general increase in the electronic content found in vehicles and, to a lesser extent, a general increase in demand by our customers. The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 in automotive end market revenue was primarily the result of increased demand due to various government-initiated incentive programs, inventory replenishment and a general increase in the electronic content found in vehicles. Consumer The year-to-year decrease in revenue from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 in consumer end market revenue was primarily the result of a decrease in demand for products in the digital camera and home entertainment sector primarily as a result of the impact of the earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in March 2011, partially offset by an increase in demand for products used in portable devices in this end market. The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 in consumer end market revenue was primarily the result of a broad-based increase in demand for products used in digital cameras and other consumer applications. Communications The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 in communications end market revenue was primarily the result of a broad-based increase in demand in this end market, which was most significant for the basestation end market sector. The year-to-year increase in revenue from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 in communications end market revenue was primarily the result of a broad-based increase in demand in this end market, which was most significant for the infrastructure sector. 28 Revenue Trends by Product The following table summarizes revenue by product categories. The categorization of our products into broad categories is based on the characteristics of the individual products, the specification of the products and in some cases the specific uses that certain products have within applications. The categorization of products into categories is therefore subject to judgment in some cases and can vary over time. In instances where products move between product categories we reclassify the amounts in the product categories for all prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each product category. 2011 2010 2009 % of % of % of Total Total Total Product Product Product Revenue Revenue Y/Y% Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue* Converters $ 1,343,492 45 % 4 % $ 1,295,678 47 % $ 1,005,004 50 % Amplifiers/Radio frequency 788,498 26 % 12 % 701,634 25 % 501,942 25 % Other analog 410,233 14 % 23 % 334,649 12 % 216,473 11 % Subtotal analog signal processing 2,542,223 85 % 9 % 2,331,961 84 % 1,723,419 86 % Power management & reference 217,501 7 % 12 % 194,699 7 % 118,148 6 % Total analog products $ 2,759,724 92 % 9 % $ 2,526,660 91 % $ 1,841,567 91 % Digital signal processing 233,596 8 % (1 )% 234,843 9 % 173,341 9 % Total Revenue $ 2,993,320 100 % 8 % $ 2,761,503 100 % $ 2,014,908 100 % * The sum of the individual percentages do not equal the total due to rounding. The increase in total revenue from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 and from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 was the result of a broad-based increase in sales across all of our product categories. Revenue Trends by Geographic Region Revenue by geographic region, based upon customer location, for the last three fiscal years is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 United States $ 532,011 $ 508,187 $ 401,608 Rest of North and South America 164,079 153,962 92,954 Europe 838,719 703,717 502,602 Japan 400,456 441,826 349,907 China 596,433 508,489 376,080 Rest of Asia 461,622 445,322 291,757 Total revenue $ 2,993,320 $ 2,761,503 $ 2,014,908 In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the predominant countries comprising Rest of North and South America are Canada and Mexico; the predominant countries comprising Europe are Germany, Sweden, France and the United Kingdom; and the predominant countries comprising Rest of Asia are Taiwan and South Korea. Sales increased in all geographic regions, except Japan, in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, primarily as a result of increases in sales activity in the industrial, automotive and communications end market sectors. The year-to-year decrease in sales in Japan was primarily the result of lower sales activity in the consumer end market sector in this region due to the earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in March 2011. 29 Sales increased in all geographic regions in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, with sales in Europe and the Rest of Asia experiencing the largest increases. The increase in sales was the result of an increase in demand for our products primarily as a result of improving economic conditions worldwide. Gross Margin Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Gross Margin $ 1,986,541 $ 1,799,422 $ 1,118,637 Gross Margin % 66.4 % 65.2 % 55.5 % Gross margin percentage was higher in fiscal 2011 by 120 basis points, as compared to fiscal 2010 primarily as a result of an increase in sales of $231.8 million, increased operating levels in our manufacturing facilities and the impact of efforts to reduce overall manufacturing costs, including the savings realized as a result of our wafer fabrication consolidation actions. Additionally, a higher proportion of our revenues were from products sold into the instrumentation and automation sectors of the industrial end market, which earn higher margins as compared to products sold into our other end markets. Gross margin percentage was higher in fiscal 2010 by 970 basis points as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily as a result of an increase in sales of $746.6 million, increased operating levels in our manufacturing facilities and the impact of ongoing efforts to reduce overall manufacturing costs, including the savings realized as a result of our wafer fabrication facility consolidations. Additionally, a higher proportion of our revenues were from products sold into the instrumentation and automation sectors of the industrial end market, which earn higher margins as compared to products sold into our other end markets. Research and Development (R&D) Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 R&D Expenses $ 505,570 $ 492,305 $ 446,980 R&D Expenses as a % of Revenue 16.9 % 17.8 % 22.2 % R&D expenses increased $13.3 million, or 3%, in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily the result of higher employee salary and benefit expense due to salary increases that were effective at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2011, increased headcount, and a general increase in spending. These increases were partially offset by lower variable compensation expense, which is a variable expense linked to our overall profitability and revenue growth. Research and development, or R&D, expenses in fiscal 2010 increased $45.3 million, or 10%, from fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in variable compensation expense, which was a variable expense linked to our overall profitability, partially offset by the impact of actions we took over the prior two years to control discretionary spending and permanently reduce operating expenses. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue will fluctuate from year-to-year depending on the amount of revenue and the success of new product development efforts, which we view as critical to our future growth. At any point in time we have hundreds of R&D projects underway, and we believe that none of these projects is material on an individual basis. We expect to continue the development of innovative technologies and processes for new products, and we believe that a continued commitment to R&D is essential in order to maintain product leadership with our existing products and to provide innovative new product offerings, and therefore, we expect to continue to make significant R&D investments in the future. 30 Selling, Marketing, General and Administrative (SMG&A) Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 SMG&A Expenses $ 406,707 $ 390,560 $ 333,184 SMG&A Expenses as a % of Revenue 13.6 % 14.1 % 16.5 % Selling, marketing, general and administrative, or SMG&A, expenses increased $16.1 million, or 4%, in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily the result of higher employee salary and benefit expense due to salary increases that were effective at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2011, increased headcount and a general increase in spending. These increases were partially offset by lower variable compensation expense, which is a variable expense linked to our overall profitability and revenue growth. SMG&A expenses in fiscal 2010 increased $57.4 million, or 17%, from fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in variable compensation expense, which was a variable expense linked to our overall profitability, and higher sales commission expenses, which are variable expenses linked to our sales. These increases were offset by the impact of actions we took over the prior two years to control discretionary spending and permanently reduce operating expenses. Special Charges Closure of Wafer Fabrication Facility in Sunnyvale We ceased production at our California wafer fabrication facility in November 2006. We paid the related lease obligation costs on a monthly basis over the remaining lease term, which expired in March 2010. We recorded a one-time settlement charge of $0.4 million in fiscal 2010 related to the termination of the lease. This action was completed during fiscal 2010. Consolidation of a Wafer Fabrication Facility in Limerick During fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2010, we recorded special charges of $16.4 million as a result of our decision to only use eight-inch technology at our wafer fabrication facility in Limerick. These special charges included $14.9 million for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with our ongoing benefit plan for 150 manufacturing employees and $1.5 million for clean-up and closure costs that we expensed as incurred. The production in the six-inch wafer fabrication facility ceased during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This action was completed during fiscal 2010. This action resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $25 million per year. Reduction of Operating Costs During fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2010, in order to further reduce our operating cost structure, we recorded special charges of approximately $43.3 million. These special charges included: $39.1 million for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with our ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for 245 manufacturing employees and 470 engineering and SMG&A employees; $2.1 million for lease obligation costs for facilities that we ceased using during the first quarter of fiscal 2009; $0.8 million for the write-off of property, plant and equipment; $0.5 million for contract termination costs; $0.3 million for clean-up and closure costs that we expensed as incurred; and $0.5 million related to the impairment of intellectual property. This action resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $52 million per year. We terminated the employment of all employees associated with this action and we are paying amounts owed to them as income continuance. During fiscal 2011, in order to further reduce our operating cost structure, we recorded a special charge of approximately $2.2 million. This special charge was for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with our ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for 25 engineering and SMG&A employees. As of October 29, 2011, we still employed 13 of the 25 employees included in this cost reduction action. These employees must continue to be employed by us until their employment is involuntarily terminated in order to receive the severance benefit. We estimate this action will result in annual savings in SMG&A expenses of approximately $4 million once fully implemented. 31 Closure of a Wafer Fabrication Facility in Cambridge During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, we recorded special charges of $26.8 million as a result of our decision to consolidate our Cambridge, Massachusetts wafer fabrication facility into our existing Wilmington, Massachusetts facility. These special charges included: $7.4 million for severance and fringe benefit costs recorded in accordance with our ongoing benefit plan for 124 manufacturing employees and 9 SMG&A employees; $14.6 million for the impairment of manufacturing assets; $3.4 million for lease obligation costs for the Cambridge wafer fabrication facility, which we ceased using in the first quarter of fiscal 2010; and $1.4 million for clean-up and closure costs that we expensed as incurred. This action was completed during the third quarter of fiscal 2011. This action resulted in annual cost savings of approximately $43 million per year. Operating Income from Continuing Operations Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Operating income from Continuing Operations $ 1,072,025 $ 900,074 $ 284,817 Operating income from Continuing Operations as a % of Revenue 35.8 % 32.6 % 14.1 % The $172.0 million, or 19%, increase in operating income from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in revenue of $231.8 million and a 120 basis point increase in gross margin percentage. The $615.3 million, or 216%, increase in operating income from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was primarily the result of an increase in revenue of $746.6 million, a 970 basis point increase in gross margin percentage, and lower special charges recorded in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Nonoperating (Income) Expense Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Interest expense $ 19,146 $ 10,429 $ 4,094 Interest income (9,060 ) (9,837 ) (15,621 ) Other, net 492 (2,183 ) (1,100 ) Total nonoperating expense (income) $ 10,578 $ (1,591 ) $ (12,627 ) Nonoperating (income) expense was higher by $12.2 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest expense incurred as a result of the issuance of $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes on April 4, 2011, and the $145 million term loan facility entered into by a wholly owned subsidiary of ours in December 2010. In addition, we earned lower interest income as a result of lower interest rates in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, which was partially offset by interest earned on higher cash balances in fiscal 2011. Nonoperating income was lower by $11 million in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense incurred during fiscal 2010 as a result of the issuance of $375 million aggregate principal 5.0% senior unsecured notes on June 30, 2009, resulting in a partial year of interest expense in 2009 compared to a full year in 2010. In addition, we earned lower interest income on investments as a result of lower interest rates in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Provision for Income Taxes $ 200,553 $ 190,440 $ 50,036 Effective Income Tax Rate 18.9 % 21.1 % 16.8 % 32 Our effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where our income is earned. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was lower by 220 basis points compared to our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010. The tax rate for fiscal 2011 included the following items which caused a decrease in our tax rate: the reinstatement of the federal R&D tax credit in December 2010 retroactive to January 1, 2010, resulting in a $6.0 million income tax savings; a $6.7 million reduction in the state tax credit valuation reserve that we believe we can now recover; a $0.5 million tax benefit from the increase in Irish deferred taxes as a result of the increase in the Irish manufacturing tax rate from 10% to 12.5%; and a net $10.8 million tax benefit related to the settlement with the Appeals Office of the Internal Revenue Service of certain tax matters for the fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2007 tax years. Fiscal 2010 also included a higher special charge, a majority of which provided a tax benefit at the higher U.S. tax rate as compared to the special charge recorded in fiscal 2011. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was higher compared to our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 primarily as a result of a change in the mix of our income to jurisdictions where income is taxed at a higher rate. In addition, higher special charges recorded in fiscal 2009, a majority of which provided a tax benefit at the higher U.S. tax rate, contributed to a higher effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Income from Continuing Operations, net of tax $ 860,894 $ 711,225 $ 247,408 Income from Continuing Operations, net of tax as a % of Revenue 28.8 % 25.8 % 12.3 % Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations $ 2.79 $ 2.33 $ 0.85 Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 was higher than in fiscal 2010 by approximately $149.7 million primarily as a result of the $172.0 million increase in operating income from continuing operations, offset by lower nonoperating income and a higher provision for income taxes in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010. Income from continuing operations, net of tax, in fiscal 2010 was higher than in fiscal 2009 by approximately $463.8 million primarily as a result of the $615.3 million increase in operating income that was partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes in fiscal 2010. The impact of inflation and foreign currency exchange rate movement on our results of operations during the past three fiscal years has not been significant. Discontinued Operations Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax $ $ $ 364 Gain on sale of Discontinued Operations, net of tax 6,500 859 Total income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax $ 6,500 $ 859 $ 364 Diluted earnings per share from Discontinued Operations $ 0.02 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 We sold our Baseband Chipset Business to MediaTek Inc. and our CPU voltage regulation and PC thermal monitoring business to certain subsidiaries of ON Semiconductor Corporation during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Accordingly, the results of the operations of these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations within the consolidated financial statements. Acquisitions In fiscal 2006, we acquired substantially all the outstanding stock of privately-held Integrant Technologies, Inc. (Integrant) of Seoul, Korea. The acquisition enabled us to enter the mobile TV market and strengthened our 33 presence in the Asia region. We paid $8.4 million related to the purchase of shares from the founder of Integrant during the period from July 2007 through July 2009. We recorded these payments as additional goodwill. In fiscal 2006, we acquired all the outstanding stock of privately-held AudioAsics A/S (AudioAsics) of Roskilde, Denmark. The acquisition of AudioAsics allowed us to continue developing low-power audio solutions, while expanding our presence in the Nordic and Eastern European regions. We paid additional cash payments of $3.1 million during fiscal 2009 for the achievement of revenue-based milestones during the period from October 2006 through January 2009, which we recorded as additional goodwill. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the acquisition documents, we paid $3.2 million during fiscal 2009 based on the achievement of technological milestones during the period from October 2006 through January 2009, which we recorded as compensation expense in fiscal 2008. All revenue and technological milestones related to this acquisition have been met and no additional payments will be made. In fiscal 2011, we acquired privately-held Lyric Semiconductor, Inc. (Lyric) of Cambridge, Massachusetts. The acquisition of Lyric gives us the potential to achieve an order of magnitude improvement in power efficiency in mixed signal processing. The acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred totaled $27.8 million, which consisted of $14.0 million in initial cash payments at closing and contingent consideration of up to $13.8 million. The contingent consideration arrangement requires additional cash payments to the former equity holders of Lyric upon the achievement of certain technological and product development milestones payable during the period from June 2011 through June 2016. As of October 29, 2011, no contingent payments have been made and the fair value of the contingent consideration was approximately $14.0 million. We allocated the purchase price to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition, resulting in the recognition of $12.2 million of in-process research and development, $18.9 million of goodwill and $3.3 million of net deferred tax liabilities. In addition, we will be obligated to pay royalties to the former equity holders of Lyric on revenue recognized from the sale of Lyric products and licenses through the earlier of 20 years or the accrual of a maximum of $25 million. Royalty payments to Lyric employees require post-acquisition services to be rendered and, as such, we will record these amounts as compensation expense in the related periods. As of October 29, 2011, no royalty payments have been made. We recognized $0.2 million of acquisition related costs that we expensed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These costs are included in operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. We have not provided pro forma results of operations for Integrant, AudioAsics and Lyric in this report as they were not material to us on either an individual or an aggregate basis. We included the results of operations of each acquisition in our consolidated statement of income from the date of such acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Net Cash Provided by Operations $ 900,529 $ 991,175 $ 432,148 Net Cash Provided by Operations as a % of Revenue 30.1 % 35.9 % 21.4 % At October 29, 2011, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1,405.1 million. The primary sources of funds for fiscal 2011 were net cash generated from operating activities of $900.5 million, proceeds of $515.5 million relating to the issuance of $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016 and the $145 million term loan facility we entered into through a wholly owned subsidiary. In addition, we received $217.2 million in net proceeds from employee stock option exercises. The principal uses of funds for fiscal 2011 were the repurchase of approximately 9 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of $330.3 million, 34 dividend payments of $281.6 million and additions to property, plant and equipment of $123.0 million. These factors contributed to the net increase in cash and cash equivalents of $335.1 million in fiscal 2011. Fiscal Year 2011 2010 Accounts Receivable $ 348,416 $ 387,169 Days Sales Outstanding* 44 46 Inventory $ 295,081 $ 277,478 Days Cost of Sales in Inventory* 105 100 * We use the annualized fourth quarter revenue in our calculation of days sales outstanding and we use the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales in our calculation of days cost of sales in inventory. Accounts receivable at October 29, 2011 decreased $38.8 million, or 10%, from the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The decrease in receivables was primarily the result of lower revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Days sales outstanding decreased by two days as a result of lower product shipments in the final month of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the final month of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Inventory at October 29, 2011 increased by $17.6 million, or 6%, from the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in inventory relates primarily to an increase in manufacturing production to support the higher revenue levels recorded in fiscal 2011. Days cost of sales in inventory increased five days primarily due to lower manufacturing costs, which resulted in cost of sales increasing only 1% from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to a 6% increase in inventory during this same time period. Current liabilities decreased to $525.0 million at October 29, 2011, a decrease of $118.5 million, or 18%, from $643.5 million at the end of fiscal 2010. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in income tax payable as a result of the settlement with the Appeals Office of the Internal Revenue Service of certain tax matters for the fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2007 tax years. In addition, accrued liabilities declined as a result of a decrease in accruals related to variable compensation expense. As of October 29, 2011 and October 30, 2010, we had gross deferred revenue of $311.3 million and $327.2 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $78.1 million and $84.4 million, respectively. Deferred income on shipments to distributors decreased by approximately $9.6 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the distributors sales to their customers in fiscal 2011 exceeding our shipments to our distributors during this same time period. Sales to distributors are made under agreements that allow distributors to receive price-adjustment credits and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. Given the uncertainties associated with the levels of price-adjustment credits to be granted to distributors, the sales price to the distributors is not fixed or determinable until the distributors resell the products to their customers. Therefore, we defer revenue recognition from sales to distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers. The amount of price-adjustments is dependent on future overall market conditions, and therefore the levels of these adjustments could fluctuate significantly from period to period. To the extent that we experience a significant increase in the amount of credits we issue to our distributors, there could be a material impact on the ultimate revenue and gross margin recognized relating to these transactions. Net additions to property, plant and equipment were $123.0 million in fiscal 2011 and were funded with a combination of cash on hand and cash generated from operations. We expect capital expenditures to be in the range of approximately $100 million to $125 million in fiscal 2012 to be used primarily in our manufacturing facilities. During fiscal 2011, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends totaling $0.94 per outstanding share of common stock resulting in aggregate dividend payments of $281.6 million. After the end of fiscal 2011, on November 18, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per outstanding share of our common stock. The dividend is payable on December 21, 2011 to shareholders of record on December 2, 2011 and is expected to total approximately $75 million. We currently expect quarterly dividends to continue at $0.25 per share, 35 although they remain subject to declaration by our Board of Directors. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be based on several factors, including our financial performance, outlook and liquidity. Our common stock repurchase program has been in place since August 2004. In the aggregate, the Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock under the program. Under the program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions. Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized under the program. As of October 29, 2011, we had repurchased a total of approximately 125.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4,278.5 million under this program. As of October 29, 2011, an additional $721.5 million remained available for repurchase of shares under the current authorized program. The repurchased shares are held as authorized but unissued shares of common stock. We also from time to time repurchase shares in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units or the exercise of stock options, or in certain limited circumstances to satisfy the exercise price of options granted to our employees under our equity compensation plans. Any future common stock repurchases will be based on several factors including our financial performance, outlook, liquidity and the amount of cash we have available in the United States. On June 30, 2009, we issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior unsecured notes due July 1, 2014 (the 5.0% Notes) with annual interest payments of 5.0% paid in two installments on January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing January 1, 2010. The net proceeds of the offering were $370.4 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting expenses, underwriting discounts and commissions, which will be amortized over the term of the 5.0% Notes. We swapped the fixed interest portion of these Notes for a variable interest rate based on the three-month LIBOR plus 2.05% (2.42% as of October 29, 2011). The variable interest payments based on the variable annual rate are payable quarterly. The LIBOR based rate is set quarterly three months prior to the date of the interest payment. The indenture governing the 5.0% Notes contains covenants that may limit our ability to: incur, create, assume or guarantee any debt for borrowed money secured by a lien upon a principal property; enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to a principal property; and consolidate with or merge into, or transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets to any other party. As of October 29, 2011, we were compliant with these covenants. On December 22, 2010, Analog Devices Holdings B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., London Branch as administrative agent. The borrowers obligations are guaranteed by us. The credit agreement provides for a term loan facility of $145 million, which matures on December 22, 2013. The terms of the agreement provide for a three-year principal amortization schedule with $3.6 million payable quarterly every March, June, September and December with the balance payable upon the maturity date. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we made an additional principal payment of $17.5 million. The loan will bear interest at a fluctuating rate for each period equal to the LIBOR rate corresponding with the tenor of the interest period plus a spread of 1.25% (1.61% as of October 29, 2011). The terms of this facility include limitations on subsidiary indebtedness and on liens against our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, and also include financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and not exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of October 29, 2011, we were compliant with these covenants. The proceeds of this loan are being used to restructure our captive finance subsidiaries. On April 4, 2011, we issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016 (the 3.0% Notes) with semi-annual fixed interest payments due on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing October 15, 2011. The net proceeds of the offering were $370.5 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting expenses, underwriting discounts and commissions, which will be amortized over the term of the 3.0% Notes. The indenture governing the 3.0% Notes contains covenants that may limit our ability to: incur, create, assume or guarantee any debt for borrowed money secured by a lien upon a principal property; enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to a principal property; and consolidate with or merge into, or transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets to, any other party. As of October 29, 2011, we were compliant with these covenants. In addition, we have a five-year $165 million unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in May 2013. To date, we have not borrowed under this credit facility but we may borrow in the future and use the proceeds for support of commercial paper issuance, stock repurchases, dividend payments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, 36 working capital and other lawful corporate purposes. The terms of this facility also include financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and not exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of October 29, 2011, we were compliant with these covenants. At October 29, 2011, our principal source of liquidity was $3,592.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $1,170.5 million was held in the United States. The balance of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States is not available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States, including for cash dividends and common stock repurchases. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the time of acquisition and our short-term investments consist primarily of liquid money market funds and corporate obligations, such as commercial paper, bonds and bank time deposits. We maintain these balances with high credit quality counterparties, continually monitor the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer and diversify our investments in order to minimize our credit risk. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity and cash expected to be generated from future operations, together with existing and anticipated available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, dividend payments (if any) and repurchases of our stock (if any) under our stock repurchase program in the immediate future and for at least the next twelve months. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations and the amounts we owe under these contracts in specified periods as of October 29, 2011: Payment due by period Less than More than (thousands) Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Operating leases a $ 66,055 $ 17,590 $ 19,675 $ 9,318 $ 19,472 Long-term debt obligations 866,608 14,500 477,108 375,000 Interest payments associated with long-term debt obligations b 110,599 31,808 61,916 16,875 Payments due under interest rate swap agreements c 25,281 9,184 16,097 Deferred compensation plan d 26,410 26,410 Pension funding e 3,673 3,673 Total $ 1,098,626 $ 76,755 $ 574,796 $ 401,193 $ 45,882 (a) Certain of our operating lease obligations include escalation clauses. These escalating payment requirements are reflected in the table. (b) The interest payments related to our 5% senior unsecured notes are expected to be fully offset by the proceeds from our interest rate swap agreements. The interest payments related to our term loan facility are based on LIBOR plus a spread of 1.25% (1.61% as of October 29, 2011). The actual payments will be based on the LIBOR rate corresponding to the tenor of the interest period chosen, plus a spread of 1.25% which is set two business days prior to the start of the new interest period. (c) These interest payments are based on a variable interest rate based on the three month LIBOR plus 2.05% (2.42% as of October 29, 2011). The actual payments will be based on the LIBOR based rate which is set quarterly three months prior to the due date of the interest payments plus 2.05%. (d) These payments relate to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation plan allows certain members of management and other highly-compensated employees and non-employee directors to defer receipt of all or any portion of their compensation. The amount in the More than 5 Years column of the table represents the remaining total balance under the deferred compensation plan to be paid to participants who have not terminated employment. Since we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of withdrawals for 37 participants who have not yet terminated employment, we have included the future obligation to these participants in the More than 5 Years column of the table. (e) Our funding policy for our foreign defined benefit plans is consistent with the local requirements of each country. The payment obligations in the table are estimates of our expected contributions to these plans for fiscal year 2012. The actual future payments may differ from the amounts presented in the table and reasonable estimates of payments beyond one year are not practical because of potential future changes in variables, such as plan asset performance, interest rates and the rate of increase in compensation levels. Purchase orders for the purchase of raw materials and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the total amount of these purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. In addition, our purchase orders generally allow for cancellation without significant penalties. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected short-term requirements. Our 2011 acquisition of Lyric Semiconductor involves the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table above does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts are uncertain. See Note 6 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our acquisitions. As of October 29, 2011, our total liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions was $20.8 million, which are included in Other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to the complexity associated with our tax uncertainties, we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle the non-current liabilities associated with these uncertain tax positions. Therefore, we have not included these uncertain tax positions in the above contractual obligations table. The expected timing of payments and the amounts of the obligations discussed above are estimated based on current information available as of October 29, 2011. Off-balance Sheet Financing As of October 29, 2011, we had no off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Outlook The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. Unless specifically mentioned, these statements do not give effect to the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date of filing this report. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding our business outlook made by us. We are planning for revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 to be down approximately 5% to 10% from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Our plan is for gross margin percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 to be approximately 63.0% plus or minus 50 basis points. We are planning for operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 to be in the range of $226 million to $229 million. As a result, our plan is for diluted EPS to be approximately $0.44 to $0.51 in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. New Accounting Pronouncements Standards Implemented Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13 Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (formerly EITF Issue No. 08-1) (ASU No. 2009-13). This standard modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple elements, such as product, software, services or support, to a customer at different 38 times as part of a single revenue generating transaction. This standard provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. The standard also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. ASU No. 2009-13 is effective for fiscal years that begin on or after June 15, 2010, which is our fiscal year 2011. The adoption of ASU 2009-13 in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 did not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Standards to be Implemented Business Combinations In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (ASC Topic 805) Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations (ASU No. 2010-29). ASU No. 2010-29 requires a public entity to disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the prior year. It also requires a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported revenue and earnings. The new disclosure will be effective for our first quarter of fiscal year 2012. The adoption of ASU No. 2010-29 will require additional disclosure in the event of a business combination but will not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Intangibles Goodwill and Other In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-28, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (ASC Topic 350) (ASU No. 2010-28). ASU No. 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. ASU 2010-28 is effective for fiscal years that begin after December 15, 2010, which is our fiscal year 2012. We do not expect the adoption of ASU No. 2010-28 to impact our financial condition and results of operations. Fair Value Measurement In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (ASU No. 2011-04). ASU No. 2011-04 amended ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , to converge the fair value measurement guidance in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Some of the amendments clarify the application of existing fair value measurement requirements, while other amendments change a particular principle in ASC 820. In addition, ASU No. 2011-04 requires additional fair value disclosures. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, which is our second quarter of fiscal year 2012. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that ASU No. 2011-04 may have on our financial condition and results of operations. Comprehensive Income In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income (ASU No. 2011-05). ASU No. 2011-05 amended ASC 320, Comprehensive Income, to converge the presentation of comprehensive income between U.S GAAP and IFRS. ASU No. 2011-05 requires that all nonowner changes in stockholders equity be presented in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements and also requires reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. ASU No. 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. ASU 2011-05 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, which is our fiscal year 39 2013. The adoption of ASU No. 2011-05 will affect the presentation of comprehensive income but will not impact our financial condition or results of operations. Intangibles Goodwill and Other: Testing Goodwill for Impairment In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (ASC Topic 350): Testing for Goodwill Impairment (ASU No. 2011-08). ASU No. 2011-08 provides a company the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of certain conditions leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, a company determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step goodwill impairment test is unnecessary. However, if a company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. ASU No. 2011-08 is effective for fiscal years that begin after December 15, 2011, which is our fiscal year 2013. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that ASU No. 2011-08 may have on our financial condition and results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and beliefs of what could occur in the future based on available information. We consider the following accounting policies to be both those most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and those that require the most subjective judgment. If actual results differ significantly from managements estimates and projections, there could be a material effect on our financial statements. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to distributors until the products are sold to the end user; however, the application of these policies does not require us to make significant estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory Valuation We value inventories at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. Because of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in inventory levels, obsolescence of technology, and product life cycles, we write down inventories to net realizable value. We employ a variety of methodologies to determine the net realizable value of inventory. While a portion of the calculation is determined via reference to the age of inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, an element of the calculation is subject to significant judgments made by us about future demand for our inventory. If actual demand for our products is less than our estimates, additional adjustments to existing inventories may need to be recorded in future periods. To date, our actual results have not been materially different than our estimates, and we do not expect them to be materially different in the future. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, when appropriate, for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. To date, our actual results have not been materially different than our estimates, and we do not expect them to be materially different in the future. Long-Lived Assets We review property, plant, and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of their carrying value to future undiscounted cash flows that the assets are 40 expected to generate over their remaining economic lives. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. Although we have recognized no material impairment adjustments related to our property, plant, and equipment and identified intangible assets during the past three fiscal years, except those made in conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration in our business in the future could lead to such impairment adjustments in future periods. Evaluation of impairment of long-lived assets requires estimates of future operating results that are used in the preparation of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. Actual future operating results and the remaining economic lives of our long-lived assets could differ from the estimates used in assessing the recoverability of these assets. These differences could result in impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, in certain instances, assets may not be impaired but their estimated useful lives may have decreased. In these situations, we amortize the remaining net book values over the revised useful lives. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, on the first day of the fourth quarter (on or about August 1) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. The impairment test involves the comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. Goodwill Goodwill is subject to annual impairment tests or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist and suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable from estimated discounted future cash flows. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis in the fourth quarter (on or about August 1) or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. For our latest annual impairment assessment that occurred on July 31, 2011, we identified our reporting units to be our five operating segments, which meet the aggregation criteria for one reportable segment. The performance of the test involves a two-step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. We generally determine the fair value of our reporting units using the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies, which requires significant judgment by management. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting units fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting units goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill. These impairment tests may result in impairment losses that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Value of Contingent Consideration related to Business Combination We record contingent consideration resulting from a business combination at its fair value on the acquisition date. We generally determine the fair value of the contingent consideration using the income approach methodology of valuation. Each reporting period thereafter, we revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating expenses within the consolidated statement of income. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration can result from changes in assumed discount periods and rates, and from changes pertaining to the achievement of the defined milestones. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, future business and economic conditions, as well as changes in any of the assumptions described above, can materially impact the amount of contingent consideration expense we record in any given period. Accounting for Income Taxes We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of the recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties relating to these uncertain tax positions. We assessed the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets and concluded that a valuation allowance is needed to reserve the amount of the deferred tax assets that may not be realized due to the 41 uncertainty of the timing and amount of the realization of certain state credit carryovers. In reaching our conclusion, we evaluated certain relevant criteria including the existence of deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred tax assets, the taxable income in prior carryback years in the impacted state jurisdictions that can be used to absorb net operating losses and taxable income in future years. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income or an increase in net loss in the period when such determinations are made, which in turn, may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained by the appropriate taxing authorities prior to recording any benefit in the financial statements. An uncertain income tax position is not recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in known facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. A change in these factors would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement and royalty arrangements among related entities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In the event our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made. In addition to the factors described above, our current and expected effective tax rate is based on then-current tax law. Significant changes during the year in enacted tax law could affect these estimates. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense associated with stock options and related awards is recognized in the statement of income. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We calculate the grant-date fair values using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The use of valuation models requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions: Expected volatility We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently believe that the exclusive use of implied volatility results in the best estimate of the grant-date fair value of employee stock options because it reflects the markets current expectations of future volatility. In evaluating the appropriateness of exclusively relying on implied volatility, we concluded that: (1) options in our common stock are actively traded with sufficient volume on several exchanges; (2) the market prices of both the traded options and the underlying shares are measured at a similar point in time to each other and on a date close to the grant date of the employee share options; (3) the traded options have exercise prices that are both near-the-money and close to the exercise price of the employee share options; and (4) the remaining maturities of the traded options used to estimate volatility are at least one year. Expected term We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption for the Black-Scholes grant-date valuation. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior. In general, the longer the expected term used in the Black-Scholes valuation model, the higher the grant-date fair value of the option. Risk-free interest rate The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate. 42 Expected dividend yield Expected dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by our Board of Directors for the current quarter and dividing that result by the closing stock price on the date of grant of the option. Until such time as our Board of Directors declares a cash dividend for an amount that is different from the current quarters cash dividend, the current dividend will be used in deriving this assumption. Cash dividends are not paid on options, restricted stock or restricted stock units. The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The term forfeitures is distinct from cancellations or expirations and represents only the unvested portion of the surrendered option. Based on an analysis of our historical forfeitures, we have applied an annual forfeiture rate of 4.3% to all unvested stock-based awards as of October 29, 2011. The rate of 4.3% represents the portion that is expected to be forfeited each year over the vesting period. This analysis is re-evaluated quarterly and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest. Contingencies From time to time, we receive demands from third parties alleging that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the patent or intellectual property rights of these parties. We periodically assess each matter to determine if a contingent liability should be recorded. In making this determination, we may, depending on the nature of the matter, consult with internal and external legal counsel and technical experts. Based on the information we obtain, combined with our judgment regarding all the facts and circumstances of each matter, we determine whether it is probable that a contingent loss may be incurred and whether the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is probable and reasonably estimable, we record a contingent loss. In determining the amount of a contingent loss, we consider advice received from experts in the specific matter, current status of legal proceedings, settlement negotiations that may be ongoing, prior case history and other factors. If the judgments and estimates made by us are incorrect, we may need to record additional contingent losses that could materially adversely impact our results of operations.