Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionCritical Accounting Estimates" for a discussion of our accruals for chargebacks, rebates, returns, and other allowances. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We market, sell, and distribute our products in the United States. Our products are distributed through the following channels: Wholesalers. We conduct business with five major wholesalers in the United States: AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson, Smith Drug Company, and Morris Dickson. Retail Market Chains. We conduct business with three major retail chains in the United States: CVS, Rite Aid, and Walgreens. Distributors and Mail Order Pharmacies. We have contracts with several major distributors and mail order pharmacies in the United States, including Anda, CVS Caremark, Humana, and ExpressScripts. Group Purchasing Organizations. We have contracts with group purchasing organizations in the United States, such as ClarusONE, Rx Sourcing Strategies, Walgreens Boots Alliance Development Group, Red Oak Sourcing, Premier Inc., Managed Health Care Associates Inc., Innovatix, MedAssets, Minnesota Multi-State, Optisource, The Premier Group, and Kaiser Permanente Purchasing Organization. 11 Table of Contents Competition Certain of our products face limited competition due to complexities in formulation, active pharmaceutical ingredient sourcing, materials handling and manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles. Nevertheless, we compete with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, including large, global pharmaceutical manufacturers capable of addressing these complexities and hurdles with respect to products that we currently produce and products that are in our pipeline. In addition, our products are subject to competition from other generic products and non-prescription alternative therapies. Our branded pharmaceutical products currently face competition from generic products and we expect them to continue to face competition from generic products in the future. In order to launch a generic product, a manufacturer must apply to the FDA for an ANDA showing that the generic product is therapeutically equivalent to the RLD. (See Government Regulation.) The primary means of competition among generic drug manufacturers are pricing, contract terms, service levels, and reliability. To compete effectively, we seek to consistently produce high-quality, reliable, and effective products. We also establish active working relationships with each of our customers, continually gather important market information in order to respond successfully to requests for proposals, maintain sufficient inventories to assure high service levels, and work to reduce product costs by sourcing and qualifying alternative suppliers whenever possible. Over the past several years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced significant consolidation, particularly in distribution channels and among generic and brand drug companies. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased the concentration of our wholesale customers. In addition, the number of retail market chains and, in particular, the number of independent drug stores and small chains, has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred, also increasing the concentration of our retail customers. As a result of this trend toward consolidation, a smaller number of companies each control a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels, which results in pricing pressure on our business and can result in a shift in sales to our competitors. In addition, consolidation among pharmaceutical companies has created opportunities by reducing the number of competitors. However, as competitors grow larger through consolidation, so do their resources. Larger competitors may be able to aggressively decrease prices in order to gain market share on certain products and may have resources that would allow them to market their products more effectively to potential customers. Our sales can also be impacted by new studies that indicate that a competitors product has greater efficacy than one of our products. If competitors introduce new products with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. Principal competitors for the pharmaceutical market in which we do business include Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Alvogen, Inc., Apotex Inc., Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc, Method Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Mylan N.V., Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., Perrigo Company plc, Rising Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Product Liability Product liability litigation represents an inherent risk to all firms in the pharmaceutical industry. We utilize traditional third-party insurance policies with regard to our product liability claims. Such insurance coverage at any given time reflects current market conditions, including cost and availability, when the policy is written. Human Capital As of January 2021, we have 369 employees, of which 250 are located in the United States and another 119 are located in Canada. We occasionally use a small number of part-time and consultant resources to meet our operational 12 Table of Contents needs and are generally not impacted by significant turnover year-to-year. We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work environment within all levels of the business. Attracting and retaining talented employees is critical to the success of our business, especially at our manufacturing operations in Baudette, Minnesota, which is located in a sparsely populated area of Northern Minnesota, with a population of less than 5,000. As a result, it can be challenging to find sufficiently qualified personnel in all functional areas. To address this, we support remote working arrangements for a number of employees in several functions throughout the business, including at the executive level. Additionally, our compensation plans are designed to be competitive within the pharmaceuticals industry as well as competitive with local employers for jobs of a cross-industry nature. Our approach provides ANI with the resources to recognize and reward employee performance, productivity, and quality commitment. Our total compensation program includes competitive base salaries, comprehensive benefits, and employee equity programs. Our U.S. and Canada facilities are committed to the safety and health of our employees, patient-customers and the general public. It is critical within our mission to ensure we keep our employees and customers safe while accomplishing our business goals. We accomplish these initiatives through the following: Health and Safety Management and Training ANI has established a health and safety program with a focus on continuous improvement and employee engagement. ANI personnel are encouraged to take corrective actions where appropriate and to communicate concerns to management with a see something, say something approach. We recognize and reward personnel for contributing to the safety system within our working environment. The overall program continually evolves to reflect regulatory changes and compliance standard industry best practices. As part of onboarding new employees, we provide health and safety training and periodic training programs to maintain and improve employee awareness of safety issues. The goal of the safety training programs is to ensure that our staff are well informed on the subject matters and have the appropriate tools to make sound health and safety decisions in our day-to-day operations. Environmental Stewardship ANI is committed to minimizing waste and emissions, promoting reuse and recycling and conserving resources, where feasible, to reduce our environmental footprint on our environment. COVID-19 Actions Our U.S. and Canada facilities quickly responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by establishing a COVID-19 action plan to protect the health and safety of our employees as they performed their duties, as all of our facilities have remained open during the pandemic. Measures include social distancing requirements, increased and expanded sanitation for both employees and our property, face covering requirements for employees and visitors, staggered work schedules to minimize contact, flexible and work-from-home schedules, and employee illness and exposure protocols. These measures also seek to comply with all county, state, province, and/or city mandates as they relate to COVID-19. Please refer to Part I, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K prior to investing in our common stock. These risks are discussed more fully in the section titled Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: The conditions under the merger agreement relating to our announced acquisition of Novitium Pharma LLC (Novitium) may not be satisfied at all or in the anticipated timeframe. The uncertain impact that novel coronavirus (COVID-19) will have on our business and results of operations; The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups that could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers; The FDA does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, which could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products; If the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) does not approve supply of the API we need to manufacture our controlled substances, we may be unable to manufacture controlled substances, which would eliminate our revenue on these products. Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing on all products, and if we cannot meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall products from the market; Federal and state false claims litigation brought against us by private individuals and the government could result in civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and other related actions; The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors could result in increased costs to develop and market our products, delay new product introductions and reduce profit potential; Third-party payer actions may prevent us from effectively marketing our products or cause us to decrease pricing; Continuing studies of our products could produce results that could have a negative impact on our business; Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; Barriers in achieving anticipated revenue growth and profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; In January 2016, we acquired two New Drug Applications (NDAs) for $75.0 million and a percentage of future net sales of products under the NDAs. We have incurred substantial expense and may be unable to obtain FDA approval, successfully market and commercialize the product; The limited number of suppliers for our API could result in lengthy delays in production if we need to change suppliers; Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities and we must secure and maintain qualified and compliant contract manufacturers. Noncompliance by these contract manufacturers or our inability to find qualified contract manufacturers could result in us being unable to commercialize these products; Several of our products are manufactured and/or packaged by third parties, which we cannot control and could result in us being unable to market and distribute products; 14 Table of Contents Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results; Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products; Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions; We face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products; Our approved products may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that allow us to achieve profitability; We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products; Production at any or all of our three manufacturing facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver product on a timely basis; We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical studies. If these parties do not perform or are non-compliant, it could negatively impact the clinical trial and potential of regulatory approval; Further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products; Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products; We have very limited staffing and are dependent upon key employees, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations; We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to operate the business effectively; We are involved in and may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time, which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation, and place a strain on our internal resources; We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial sums; Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods; Making interest and principal payments under our Senior Secured Credit Facility will continue to require a significant amount of cash; Financial and restrictive covenants on our secured term loan (Term Loan), senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolver), and delayed draw term loan (DDTL). If we are non-compliant, we will be in default, which could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness; and Raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to our current stockholders. Raising additional funds by issuing new debt financing may restrict our operations. 15 Table of Contents The following are significant factors known to us that could materially harm our business, financial position, or operating results or could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statement made in this report. The risks described are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial position, and operating results could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business Our proposed acquisition of Novitium Pharma LLC may not be completed or the closing of the acquisition may be delayed, and if completed, we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or within the timeframe we anticipate. As previously announced, on March 8, 2021, ANI entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Nile Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and our wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub), Novitium, and certain other parties under which Merger Sub will merge with and into Novitium, with Novitium surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of ANI. While we expect to complete the proposed transaction in the second half of 2021, the proposed merger is subject to a number of conditions that must be satisfied in order for the transaction to be consummated, including, among others, the approval by our stockholders of the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with the merger, and the closing of the new equity and debt arrangements related to the acquisition. We cannot guarantee that the acquisition will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or at all. Any delay in completing the acquisition could diminish the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and result in additional transaction costs, and failure to complete the acquisition could adversely impact the market price of our stock as well as our business and operating results. If completed, the success of the Novitium acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate Novitium into our businesses and realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. If we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. If the acquisition is not completed for any reason, including as a result of our shareholders declining to approve the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with the merger, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price; we may experience negative reactions from our customers, vendors and employees; we will have incurred substantial expenses and will be required to pay certain costs relating to the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed; and we will have spent substantial commitment of time and resources by management on matters relating to the acquisition, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. 16 Table of Contents Our anticipated revenue growth and profitability, if achieved, is dependent upon our ability to develop, license or acquire, and commercialize new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors product introductions, and to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products. Our failure to do so successfully could impair our growth strategy and plans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our future revenues and profitability are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop, license or acquire, and commercialize pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. Product development is inherently risky and time-consuming. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to the supply of product meeting specifications and terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process also requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources. We may not be successful in commercializing products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. The FDA must approve any new prescription product before it can be marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and largely unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis for branded or generic products that we may develop, license, or acquire. Moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, we may be limited with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, which in turn could restrict the potential market for the drug. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory. In the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of any such inventory becoming obsolete. The timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results. The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the FDA granting simultaneous final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces a generic firm to face immediate competition when it introduces a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. As a result, we could be unable to grow or maintain market share with respect to our generic pharmaceutical products, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market that product profitably and on our business, financial position, and operating results. Furthermore, if we are unable to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products in a timely manner, our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The FDA regulates and monitors all promotion and advertising of prescription drugs after approval. All promotion must be consistent with the conditions of approval and submitted to the agency. Failure to adhere to FDA promotional requirements can result in enforcement letters, warning letters, changes to existing promotional material, and corrective notices to healthcare professionals. Promotion of a prescription drug for uses not approved by the FDA can have serious consequences and result in lawsuits by private parties, state governments and the federal government, significant civil and criminal penalties, and compliance agreements that require a company to change current practices and prevent unlawful activity in the future. In January 2016, we acquired two NDAs for $75.0 million and a percentage of future net sales of products under the NDAs. We continue to invest in the NDAs and if we are unable to commercialize these products, it could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial position, and operating results. In January 2016, we acquired the right, title, and interest in the NDAs for Cortrophin Gel, 40 units/mL and 80 units/mL and Cortrophin Zinc, 40 units/mL, along with certain documentation and trademark applications, from Merck for $75.0 million and a percentage of future net sales of the products under the NDAs. We have incurred and intend to continue to incur research and development expenses with respect to approval of sNDA of Cortrophin Gel. We have 17 Table of Contents made significant progress, including validation of drug substance and drug product manufacturing processes and initiation of manufacturing of commercial batches to prepare for a future product launch. We continue to press forward with the resubmission process and have developed a detailed plan for the completion of all activities related to the remediation efforts. Our internal team has been consolidated to ensure the appropriate expertise and headcount have been dedicated to this effort. Our team is working closely with prominent consultants in the industry and have remained engaged with the FDA throughout to ensure this submission meets current FDA expectations. However, in the instance where we may be unable to commercialize the products this could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial position, and operating results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for API. Generally, only a single source of API is qualified for use in each product due to the costs and time required to validate a second source of supply. We may experience lengthy delays if we need to change an API supplier, which could have a material impact on business and results of operations. Our ability to manufacture and distribute products is dependent, in part, upon ingredients and components supplied by others, including entities based outside the U.S. We purchased approximately 10% of our inventory from one supplier during the year ended December 31, 2020. We purchased approximately 13% of our inventory from one supplier during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Any disruption in the supply of these ingredients or components or any problems in their quality could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and could result in legal liabilities that could materially affect our ability to realize profits or otherwise harm our business, financial, and operating results. Virtually all of our contracts for the supply of pharmaceutical products to customers contain "failure to supply" clauses. Under these clauses, if we are unable to supply the requested quantity of product within a certain period after receipt of a customers purchase order, the customer is entitled to procure a substitute product elsewhere and we must reimburse the customer for the difference between our contract price and the price the customer was forced to pay to procure the substitute product. Therefore, our ability to source sufficient quantities of API for manufacturing is critical. We source the raw materials for our products from both domestic and international suppliers, which we carefully select. Generally, we qualify only a single source of API for use in each product due to the cost and time required to validate and qualify a second source of supply. Any change in one of our API suppliers must usually be approved through a PAS by the FDA. The process of obtaining an approval of such a PAS can require between four and 18 months. While we also generally qualify a single source for non-API raw materials, the process required to qualify an alternative source of a non-API raw material is typically much less rigorous. If we were to change the supplier of a raw material for a product, the cost for the material could be greater than the amount we paid with the previous supplier. Changes in suppliers are rare but could occur as a result of a suppliers business failing, an issue arising from an FDA inspection, or failure to maintain our required standards of quality. As a result, we select suppliers with great care, based on various factors including quality, reliability of supply, and long-term financial stability. Certain of the APIs for our drug products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, are sourced from international suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of certain of such imported API due to FDA inspections. Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities and are manufactured and/or packaged by third parties, which we cannot control. If we are unable to secure or maintain qualified contract manufacturers for those products or if a contract manufacturer fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially, adversely affected. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, a variety of products that we seek to commercialize. Some of these products, including injectables and softgel capsules, are products that we cannot manufacture in our facilities. As a result, we may seek partners to contract manufacture the products on our behalf. Like our company, these firms must comply with cGMPs and other federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding pharmaceutical manufacturing. Noncompliance by those firms may result in warning letters, fines, product recalls, and partial or total suspension of production and distribution. If we are unable to find qualified contract manufacturers or if a contract manufacturer fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, we may be unable to commercialize these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results, including an impairment of the acquired product. 18 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to manufacture and/or package many of our products. We expect our reliance on third party manufacturers to continue to increase in the future as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our collaborative arrangements, and as we seek additional growth opportunities outside of the capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to secure third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to market and distribute such products at a profit. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of these products, or future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our branded products may become subject to increased generic competition. Many of our branded products have not been patent-protected for several years and no longer have market exclusivity. As a result, trends moving toward increased substitution and reimbursement of generics for cost-containment purposes may reduce and limit the sales of our mature brand products. Additionally, increased focus by the FDA on approval of generic products may accelerate this trend. If generic products are substituted for these branded products, our revenue from these products will decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results. Our growth will depend, in part, on our continued ability to develop, commercialize, and expand our products, including in response to changing regulatory and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we have and may continue to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates or products can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete or successfully execute strategies for identified acquisitions. The risks faced in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition and/or product integration challenges; coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions; retention of key employees from the acquired company; integration of the acquired companys accounting information, management, human resources, and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; difficulties relating to integrating the acquired business; liability for activities of the acquired company and/or products before the acquisition, including patent infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company or product, including claims from product users, former stockholders, or other third parties. In any acquisition that we may undertake, our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products, and the estimates on which our accruals are based are subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased significantly due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our 19 Table of Contents estimates of the amount of our product that will be prescribed to Medicaid beneficiaries. The resulting accruals are significant, and as Medicaid utilization trends change, we may need to change our estimates accordingly. We cannot guarantee that actual results will not differ from our estimates. In addition, the PPACA included a significant expansion of state Medicaid programs. As more individuals become eligible for coverage under these programs, Medicaid utilization of our products could increase, resulting in a corresponding increase in our rebate payments. Increases in Medicaid rebate payments could decrease our revenues from product sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our accruals for the rebates under the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our estimates of the amount of product that will be prescribed to patients in the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, which is primarily for the benefit of persons aged 65 years and over. As our products are often used by patients in this age range, our estimates of these rebates have grown. Increases in Medicare Coverage Gap Discount rebates could decrease our revenues from product sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. We have entered into distribution agreements under which we market products under ANDAs and NDAs owned by third parties. Any changes to these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We have entered into several distribution agreements to market and distribute products under our own label that are sold under ANDAs and NDAs owned by third parties, over which we have no control. Generally, the responsibility for maintaining the ANDAs and NDAs lies with these third parties. If any regulatory issues were to arise with the underlying ANDA or NDA for one of these products, we could be required to discontinue sales of the product, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that may adversely impact commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. If we are unable to successfully compete, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. The generic pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from U.S. and foreign manufacturers, many of whom are significantly larger than us. Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to ours for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: greater financial resources; proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger research and development and marketing staffs; larger production capabilities; more products; or more experience in developing new drugs. Any of our significant competitors, due to one or more of these and other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our approved products may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that allow us to achieve profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We seek to develop, license, or acquire products that we can commercialize at levels of market acceptance that would allow us to recoup our costs, grow market share, and achieve profitability. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products, if we fail to predict accurately demand for such products, our business, 20 Table of Contents financial position, and operating results could be adversely affected. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: availability of alternative products from our competitors; our products pricing relative to that of our competitors; our marketing effectiveness relative to that of our competitors; timing of our market entry; our ability to market our products effectively to the retail level; and acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are outside of our control and, if any arise, our profitability, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into several collaborative arrangements that may not result in marketable products. We have entered into several collaborative arrangements to develop generic products for us to market in the U.S. We can offer no assurances that these arrangements will result in additional approved products, or that we will be able to market the products at a profit. In addition, any expenses related to clinical trials, or additional studies required by the FDA, that we may incur in connection with these collaborative arrangements may negatively affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Specifically: clinical trials could be more costly than we anticipate; formulation development could take longer and be more costly than we expect; we may be required to obtain specialized equipment in order to manufacture products on a commercial scale; and we may be subject to milestone payments to collaborative partners, the timing of which we may be unable to predict. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products. Failure to successfully introduce products into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market approved products in accordance with applicable regulations. Research and development is expensive and time-consuming. As we seek to develop new products, or re-commercialize products that were previously approved, our research expenses will increase, potentially significantly, and we cannot be certain that we will recover our investment in a product, even if that product is commercialized. If we spend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able to introduce new products, our business, financial position, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We own three manufacturing facilities that produce the majority of our products. Production at any or all of these facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver sufficient product to customers on a timely basis and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our manufacturing operations are based in three facilities. While these facilities are sufficient for our current needs, the facilities are highly specialized and any damage to or need for replacement of all or any significant function of our facilities could be very costly and time-consuming and could impair or prohibit production and shipping. A significant disruption at any of the facilities, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, adverse quality or compliance observation, vandalism, natural disaster, storm or other environmental damage, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products on a timely basis and, among other consequences, could subject us to failure to supply claims from our customers, as discussed below. Although we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, we might suffer losses because of business interruptions that exceed the coverage 21 Table of Contents available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Virtually all our contracts for the supply of products to our customers contain "failure to supply" clauses which require us to reimburse the customer for the difference between our contract price and the price the customer was forced to pay to procure the substitute product in the event we failed to deliver the requested quantity within a specified period of time. This difference can be substantial because of the much higher spot price at which the customer must cover its requirements and can be far in excess of the revenue that we would otherwise have received on the sale of our own product. Therefore, our ability to produce and ship a sufficient quantity of product on a consistent basis is critical. Failure to deliver products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical studies. If these third parties do not perform as required or expected, or if they are not in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated, or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such studies. Further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products. We rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories, to assist with our clinical studies. We are responsible for confirming that our studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical studies is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording, and reporting the results of clinical studies, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical study participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on these third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. If the third parties assisting us with our clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDAs good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such studies. For our already-approved commercial products, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. With the exception of a license for patent technology for Inderal XL and InnoPran XL, we do not own or license any material patents associated with our products, and our ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how, and other technological innovation is limited. Generally, the branded pharmaceutical business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. Except for a license for patent technology for Inderal XL and InnoPran XL, we do not own or license any material patents associated with our products and therefore do not enjoy the same level of intellectual property protection with respect to such products as would a pharmaceutical manufacturer that markets a patented product. We have limited ability to protect and control trade secrets, know-how, and other technological innovation, all of which are unpatented. Others independently may develop similar or better proprietary information and techniques and disclose them publicly. In addition, others may gain access to our trade secrets, and we may not be able to protect our rights to our unpatented trade secrets. In addition, confidentiality agreements and other measures may not provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Failure to protect and control such trade secrets, know-how and innovation could harm the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products. We own the trademark names for most of our branded products, including, Cortenema, Cortrophin Gel, Cortrophin-Zinc, Inderal LA, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, Lithobid, Reglan, and Vancocin. We license the trademark names for Atacand, Atacand HCT, Arimidex, and Casodex. While we will seek to protect those trademarks through timely renewal in applicable jurisdictions, we may not be able to renew our trademarks in a timely manner or to prevent third parties 22 Table of Contents from using our trademarks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We have very limited staffing and are dependent upon key employees, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations. Competition for talent is intense, especially in northern Minnesota, where the population is small. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, the growth and success of our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a relatively small management team and staff. We have employment arrangements in place with our executive and other officers, but none of these executive and other officers are bound legally to remain employed with ANI for any specific term. We do not have key person life insurance policies covering our executive and other officers or any of our other employees. If key individuals were to leave ANI, our business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. The population in northern Minnesota, where two of our manufacturing facilities are located, is small, and as a result, there is a limited number of qualified personnel available in all functional areas, which could make it difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate the business effectively. We rely significantly on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to effectively manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers in a timely manner. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, any failure, accidents, inadequacy, or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers timely depends significantly on our general ledger, our contracted electronic data interface system, and other information systems. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cybersecurity incidents resulting in the failure of our information systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security or other unauthorized access of these systems, may affect our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, and result in delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of operations. A breach in security, unauthorized access resulting in misappropriation, theft, or sabotage with respect to proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. We are currently involved in and may from time to time become involved in legal proceedings, some of which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation, and place a strain on our internal resources. We are currently involved in and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business, , as a party or non-party witness, with both private parties and certain government agencies. We may incur substantial time and expenses participating in these types of lawsuits and investigations, which could also divert managements attention from ongoing business concerns and normal operations. In addition, these matters and any other substantial litigation may result in verdicts against us or government enforcement actions, which may include significant monetary awards, and preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. Any dispute resolved unfavorably, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. For a description of legal proceedings which are currently pending, see Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 23 Table of Contents We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial sums. Like all pharmaceutical companies, we face of the risk of loss resulting from, and the adverse publicity associated with, product liability lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. We likely cannot avoid such claims. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products or product candidates would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers, patients and clinical trial participants. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could require us to spend money on litigation, divert managements time, damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products. In addition, although we believe that we have adequate product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that our insurance will, in fact, be sufficient to cover such claims or that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at acceptable prices. A successful product liability claim that is excluded from coverage or exceeds our policy limits could require us to pay substantial sums. Additionally, insurance coverage for product liability may become prohibitively expensive in the future or may not be available at all, and as a result, we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage to mitigate the risk of large claims, or we may be required to maintain a larger self-insured retention that we would otherwise choose. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. A portion of our transactions are denominated in a foreign currency, the Canadian dollar. Because we engage in certain transactions in a foreign currency, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar depreciates against the Canadian dollar, the expenses we recognize from Canadian-denominated transactions made by our Canadian subsidiary could be translated at an unfavorable rate, leading to foreign exchange losses. Foreign exchange gains or losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations in any given period could harm our operating results and negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to our Industry The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant financial market volatility, and its impact on the global economy and our operations remains uncertain. A continuation or worsening of the pandemic could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. On March 12, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic. In an effort to contain and mitigate the spread of COVID-19, many countries, including the United States and Canada, imposed unprecedented restrictions on travel, and there were business closures and a substantial reduction in economic activity in countries that have had significant outbreaks of COVID-19. Significant uncertainty remains as to the continued potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and on the global economy as a whole. Demand for the products we sell was negatively impacted by COVID-19 during the year ended December 31, 2020, and most significantly during the three month period ended June 30, 2020, as fewer patients visited physicians for conditions treated by our products, fewer elective surgeries occurred and visits to pharmacies declined due to government-mandated shelter-in-place orders and closures of or restrictions placed on visits to medical offices and facilities. This situation could continue or worsen depending on the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the level of success in implementing mitigation measures, such as vaccines, the length of time it takes for normal economic and operating conditions to resume, additional governmental actions that may be taken and/or extensions of time for restrictions that been imposed to date, and numerous other uncertainties. While many of government-mandated shelter-in-place or similar orders have elapsed or become less restrictive, it is possible future similar orders could be reinstituted due to uncertainty regarding the virus that causes COVID-19, including the emergence of new strains, which could negatively impact in future product sales. 24 Table of Contents It is currently not possible to predict how long the pandemic will last, whether shelter-in-place orders will be reinstituted, the availability of vaccines to the general population or the time that it will take for economic activity to return to pre-pandemic levels. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant financial market volatility and uncertainty. A continuation or worsening of the levels of market disruption and volatility seen in the recent past could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital, our pharmaceutical supply chain, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the market price of our common stock. The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Consolidation and the formation of strategic partnerships among and between wholesale distributors, chain drug stores, and group purchasing organizations has resulted in a smaller number of companies, each controlling a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels. For example, our net revenues are concentrated among three customers representing 34%, 24%, and 19% of net revenues, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, accounts receivable from these three customers was approximately 81% of our accounts receivable, net. Drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains, which represent an essential part of the distribution chain for generic pharmaceutical products, have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in declines in our sales volumes if a customer is consolidated into another company that purchases products from a competitor. In addition, the consolidation of drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains could result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business and enabling those groups to charge us increased fees. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. The result of these developments or the loss of our relationship with one or more of these wholesalers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any determination that we have failed to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes. Any determination by governmental agencies that we have failed to comply with our reporting and payment obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Two of our products, which together comprised 8% of our total revenue in 2020, are marketed without approved NDAs or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) and we can offer no assurances that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will not require us to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Two of our products, Esterified Estrogen with Methyltestosterone (EEMT) and Opium Tincture, are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. Previously, the FDAs Unapproved Drug Initiative included publication of their policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products in the September 2011 Compliance Policy Guide Sec. 440.100 titled Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs. Under this policy, the FDA had stated that it would follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products. The guideline allowed the FDA to evaluate whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, while giving higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those with potential safety risks or that lack evidence of 25 Table of Contents effectiveness. In November 2020 (effective December 2020), the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) published a notice in the Federal Register to terminate the FDAs Unapproved Drug Initiative, which would include the withdrawal of this September 2011 Compliance Policy Guide. Neither the HHS nor the FDA has provided any additional guidance, notice or statement regarding how they intend to approach enforcement against marketing of unapproved products. We continue to believe that, so long as we comply with applicable manufacturing standards, the FDA will continue to operate on a risk-based approach and will not take action against us. However, we can offer no assurance that the FDA will continue to follow this approach or that it will not take a contrary position with any individual product or group of products. Additionally, our EEMT products are related to an outstanding Notice of Opportunity for Hearing on estrogen-androgen products. The hearing relates to the FDA's intent to reclassify certain estrogen-androgen combination drugs as lacking substantial evidence of their effectiveness for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with the menopause in those patients not improved by estrogen alone. If the FDA were to move away from the risk-based approach to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products, we may be required to seek FDA approval for these products or withdraw such products from the market. If we decide to withdraw the products from the market, our net revenues for generic pharmaceutical products would decline materially, and if we decide to seek FDA approval, we would face increased expenses and might need to suspend sales of the products until such approval was obtained, and there are no assurances that we would receive such approval. Imported API are subject to inspection by the FDA and the FDA can refuse to permit the importation of API for use in products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. We are dependent on imported API to make certain of our products. If the FDA detained or refused to allow the importation of such API, our revenues from certain of our products would be reduced or eliminated and our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We source some of the API for our products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, from international suppliers. From time to time, due to FDA inspections, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of imported API. Any prolonged disruption in the supply of imported API could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products, reduce or eliminate our revenues, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, as regulatory fees and compliance oversight of API manufacturers increase, this could result in certain companies discontinuing their supply of API to ANI, which would materially affect ANIs ability to manufacture its products. The FDA does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT and Opium Tincture. Pharmaceutical product labels contain important safety information including Black Box warnings, contraindications, dosing and administration, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific populations such as pregnant women, pediatric, and geriatric patients, and other warnings and precautions. Pharmaceutical manufacturers may change product labels when post-approval drug safety surveillance programs identify previously unknown side-effects, drug interactions, and other risks. Manufacturers may also change product labels after conducting post-approval clinical studies and may receive or seek guidance from the FDA regarding updating safety labeling information. However, the FDA does not provide guidance on labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT and Opium Tincture. Additionally, because the FDA does not review and approve labeling for the products without approved NDAs or ANDAs, it would be difficult to make a claim for preemption due to the FDAs approval of the labeling and this could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products. Such claims, even if successfully defended, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. 26 Table of Contents We are entirely dependent on periodic approval by the DEA for the supply of the API needed to manufacture our controlled substances. An inability to obtain such approvals would reduce or eliminate our revenues for our controlled substances, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, we are subject to strict regulation by the DEA and are subject to sanctions if we are unable to comply with related regulatory requirements. The DEA regulates products containing controlled substances, such as opiates, pursuant to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act (CSA). The CSA and DEA regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security, and distribution. Recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored, and distributed. Companies handling controlled substances also are required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. In addition, each year, we must submit a request to the DEA for a procurement quota in order to purchase the amount of API needed to manufacture our Schedule II controlled substances. Without approved procurement quotas from the DEA, we would not be able to purchase these ingredients from our suppliers. As a result, we are entirely dependent upon the DEA to approve, on an annual basis, a quota of API that is sufficiently large to support our plans for the continued manufacture of our controlled substances at commercial levels. In 2017, the DEA announced that the administration would decrease the total quotas approved for Schedule II opioid painkillers. In 2018, the DEA decreased quotas approved for Schedule II opioid painkillers. The DEA continues to closely monitor quotas of certain opioids and as a result there may be a reduction from what was requested; however, firms may file an application for a quota adjustment at any time during the calendar year. If the DEA does not approve our requested procurement quotas, we may be unable to obtain sufficient API to manufacture these products at levels required by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing and all products, including those already approved, may need to meet current standards. If our products are not able to meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market. Steadily increasing quality standards are applicable to pharmaceutical products still under development and those already approved and on the market. These standards result from product quality initiatives implemented by the FDA, such as criteria for residual solvents, periodic guidance from the FDA regarding testing for impurities, such as nitrosamine, in our products, and updated U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention (USP) Reference Standards. The USP is a scientific nonprofit organization that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed, and consumed worldwide. Pharmaceutical products approved prior to the implementation of new quality standards, including those produced by us, may not meet these standards, which could require us to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, results of periodic testing we conduct on our products may indicate the presence of substances at levels above which are acceptable under FDA or other standards, which will require a recall of the product. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2019, testing of the API used in our ranitidine drug product, as well as testing of the drug product itself, indicated a level of a nitrosamine impurity called N-nitrosdimethylamine (NDMA) above acceptable thresholds. NDMA is classified as a probable human carcinogen. Appco Pharma, LLC, with whom we had partnered to develop and market the product, initiated a voluntary recall, and we elected to exit the market for Ranitidine in 2019. In July 2020, we were served with a complaint brought by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New Mexico against manufacturers and sellers of ranitidine products. The complaint asserts a public nuisance claim and a negligence claim against the generic ranitidine manufacturer defendants, including us. The public nuisance claim asserts that the widespread sale of ranitidine products in the state created a public nuisance that requires a state-wide medical monitoring program of New Mexico residents for the development of colorectal cancer, stomach cancer, gastrointestinal disorders and liver disease. 27 Table of Contents We may become subject to federal and state false claims litigation brought by private individuals and the government. We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal False Claims Act (FFCA), also known as Qui Tam, imposes civil liability and criminal fines on individuals or entities that knowingly submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the FFCA and other similar laws may result in criminal fines, imprisonment, and civil penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from federally funded health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The FFCA also allows private individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the government against an individual or entity for violations of the FFCA. These suits, also known as Qui Tam actions, may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. These suits have increased significantly in recent years because the FFCA allows an individual to share in any amounts paid to the federal government from a successful Qui Tam action. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Actions brought against ANI for violations of these laws, even if successfully defended, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors, both branded and generic, including "authorized generics," citizens petitions, and legislative proposals, may increase the costs to develop and market our generic products, could delay or prevent new product introductions, and could significantly reduce our profit potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue legal, regulatory, and/or legislative strategies to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; launching a generic version of their own branded product at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; filing citizen petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of generic product approvals; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or meet other approval requirements; initiating legislative and regulatory efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement that may delay regulatory approval of generic products; introducing "next-generation" products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic product; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of branded drugs in pediatric populations or by other potential methods; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of branded name drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the branded company to obtain new patented products serving as substitutes for the products withdrawn; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. If we cannot compete with such strategies, our business, financial position, and operating results could be adversely impacted. 28 Table of Contents If third-party payers deny coverage, substitute another companys product for our product, or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage, choose to provide coverage for a competitors bioequivalent product rather than our product, or offer limited reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary, or inappropriate. Prices also could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or limit reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant additional costs. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal authorities, including the FDA, the DEA, and state governmental authorities. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of our products. Noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements can have a broad range of consequences, including warning letters, fines, seizure of products, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and distribution, refusal to approve NDAs or other applications or revocation of approvals previously granted, withdrawal of product from marketing, injunctions, withdrawal of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct business, disqualification from supply contracts with the government, civil penalties, debarment, and criminal prosecution. All U.S. facilities where prescription drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed must comply with FDA current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). All of our products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all applicable regulations. If it finds violations of cGMP, the FDA could make its concerns public and could impose sanctions including, among others, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDAs review of product applications, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. If imposed, enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs in place that we believe are adequate, the FDA may conclude that these programs do not meet regulatory standards. If compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. government has enacted the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. All prescription pharmaceutical products distributed in the U.S. must be serialized with unique product identifiers. ANI started manufacturing serialization-compliant products in November 2018. The final requirement for tracking the products will commence on November 27, 2023. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Companys operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. In addition, if we are unable to comply with DSCSA as of the required dates, we could face penalties or be unable to sell our products. Our research, product development, and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs in complying with numerous laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture such products, and resulting waste products. 29 Table of Contents We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts, from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We may also incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We are also subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to, federal, state, and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination, and whistle-blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results. Our operations in an international market subject us to additional regulatory oversight both in the international market and in the U.S., as well as, social, and political uncertainties, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We are subject to certain risks associated with having assets and operations located in a foreign jurisdiction, including our operations in Canada. Our Canadian operations are subject to regulation by Health Canada and other federal, provincial, and local regulatory authorities. Health Canada regulates the testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing, and sale of pharmaceutical products manufactured and distributed in Canada. Our operations in this jurisdiction may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, and increased government regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Continuing studies of our products could produce negative results, which could require us to implement risk management programs, or discontinue product marketing. In addition, ongoing post-approval drug safety surveillance of our products could result in the submission of adverse event reports to the FDA. Studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others on a continuous basis. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of current and previously marketed products, including those that we produce. In addition, we are required by the FDA to submit reports of adverse events involving the use of our products. In some cases, studies and safety surveillance programs have resulted, and in the future may result, in the one or more of the following: product label changes including FDA-mandated Black Box warnings; risk management programs such as patient registries; reduced product sales due to concerns among patients and physicians; and discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur with respect to any of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of, and reimbursement for healthcare services in the U.S., and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the ACA) substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. While the ACA may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products and may otherwise increase drug coverage, it also includes provisions such as, among others, the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee, the requirement that manufacturers provide discounts to Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs. 30 Table of Contents The constitutionality of the PPACA is currently under review by the U.S. Supreme Court, and it is unclear when a decision will be reached. We expect that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of our existing products. The cost-containment measures that government programs and healthcare insurers are instituting both as a result of general cost pressure in the industry and healthcare reforms contained in the ACA may adversely affect the demand for our products and prevent us from maintaining prices for our products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our products are marketed outside of the U.S., foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results. We expect that legislators, policymakers and healthcare insurance funds in Europe will continue to propose and implement cost-containing measures to keep healthcare costs down. These measures could include limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products or the level of reimbursement available for these products from governmental authorities or third party payors. Further, an increasing number of European and other foreign countries use prices for medicinal products established in other countries as reference prices to help determine the price of the product in their own territory. Consequently, a downward trend in prices of medicinal products in some countries could contribute to similar downward trends elsewhere. Additionally, if we become the subject of any future government investigation or U.S. Congressional oversight with respect to drug pricing or other business practices, we could incur significant expense and could be distracted from operation of our business and execution of our strategy. Any such investigation or hearing could also result in reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Risks Related to Accounting, Tax, and SEC Rules and Regulations We have increased exposure to tax liabilities, including foreign tax liabilities. As a company based in the U.S. with a subsidiary in Canada, we are subject to, or potentially subject to, income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in this jurisdiction as well as the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining our international provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations, which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements between our U.S. operations and our Canadian subsidiary in relation to various aspects of our business, including tech transfers and contract manufacturing. Tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with, and subsequently challenge, the amount of profits taxed in such jurisdictions; such challenges may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Failure to comply with applicable transfer pricing and similar regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We are subject to complex transfer pricing and other tax regulations in the United States and Canada designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned and are taxed in the appropriate taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable U.S and Canadian regulations and restrictions, we are subject to the risk that governmental authorities could audit our transfer pricing and related practices and assert that additional taxes are owed. In the event that the audits or assessments are concluded adversely against us, we may or may not be able to offset or mitigate the consolidated effect of any such assessments. 31 Table of Contents Changes in estimates regarding the fair value of goodwill or intangible assets may result in an adverse impact to our business, financial position, and operating results. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill might not be recoverable. Judgment is used in determining when these events and circumstances arise. We perform our review of goodwill based on our one reporting unit. If we determine that the carrying value of our assets may not be recoverable, we assess, using judgment and estimates, the fair value of our assets and to determine the amount of any impairment loss, if any. Changes in judgments and estimates may result in the recognition of an impairment loss, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. While our testing in fiscal 2020 did not result in an impairment charge related to goodwill, there can be no assurances that our goodwill will not be impaired in the future. Our material definite-lived intangible assets consist of ANDAs for previously marketed generic products, NDAs and product rights for our branded products, product rights related to certain generic products, and a non-compete agreement. These assets are being amortized over their useful lives of four to 10 years. For these definite-lived intangible assets, we perform an impairment analysis when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on our impairment analysis, the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. An impairment charge could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. We recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2020, in relation to a marketing and distribution right asset, and there can be no assurances that our remaining intangible assets will not be impaired in the future. We recorded an impairment charge of $75 thousand in the year ended December 31, 2019, in relation to a separate product right asset. Our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, investors could lose confidence in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business, financial position, and operating results. As a public company, we are required to comply with significant legal, accounting, and other requirements, and as a result, we incur significant regulatory compliance-related expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including those related to corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Some members of management do not have significant experience in addressing these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs relative to those of previous years and make some activities more time consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure