Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionCritical Accounting Estimates for a discussion of our accruals for chargebacks, rebates, returns, and other allowances. 10 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We market, sell, and distribute our products in the United States. Our products are distributed through the following channels: Wholesalers. We conduct business with the three major wholesalers in the United States: Cencora, Inc., Cardinal Health, and McKesson. Retail Market Chains. We conduct business with all the major retail chains in the United States which includes CVS, Rite Aid, Kroger, Walmart, and Walgreens. Distributors and Mail Order Pharmacies. We have contracts with several major distributors and mail order pharmacies in the United States, including Anda, Smith Drug Company, Morris Dickson, CVS Caremark, Centerwell, and ExpressScripts. Group Purchasing Organizations. We have contracts with group purchasing organizations in the United States, such as ClarusONE, Walgreens Boots Alliance Development Group, Red Oak Sourcing, Econdisc, Optisource, Rx Sourcing Strategies, The Premier Group, Topco, The Buyers Consortium, Managed Health Care Associates Inc., Asembia, Premier Inc, and Kaiser Permanente. Specialty Pharmacies. In our Rare Disease segment we contract with specialty pharmacies. Hospitals. In our Rare Disease segment we contract with certain hospital systems. Competition Certain of our products face limited competition due to complexities in formulation, active pharmaceutical ingredient sourcing, materials handling and manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles. Nevertheless, we compete with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, including large, global pharmaceutical manufacturers capable of addressing these complexities and hurdles with respect to products that we currently produce and products that are in our pipeline. In addition, our products are subject to competition from other generic products and non-prescription alternative therapies. Our established brand pharmaceutical products currently face competition from generic products and we expect them to continue to face competition from generic products in the future. In order to launch a generic product, a manufacturer must apply to the FDA for an ANDA showing that the generic product is therapeutically equivalent to the RLD. (See Government Regulation.) The primary means of competition among generic drug manufacturers are pricing, contract terms, service levels, and reliability. To compete effectively, we seek to consistently produce high-quality, reliable, and effective products. We also establish active working relationships with each of our customers, continually gather important market information in order to respond successfully to requests for proposals, maintain sufficient inventories to assure high service levels, and work to reduce product costs by sourcing and qualifying alternative suppliers whenever possible. Over the past several years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced significant consolidation, particularly in distribution channels and among generic and brand drug companies. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased the concentration of our wholesale customers. In addition, the number of retail market chains and, in particular, the number of independent drug stores and small chains, has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred, also increasing the concentration of our retail customers. As a result of this trend toward consolidation, a smaller number of companies each control a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels, which results in pricing pressure on our business and can result in a shift in sales to our competitors. In addition, consolidation among pharmaceutical companies has created opportunities by reducing the number of competitors. However, as competitors grow larger through consolidation, so do their resources. Larger competitors may be able to aggressively decrease prices in order to gain market share on certain products and may have resources that would allow them to market their products more effectively to potential customers. Our sales can also be impacted by new studies that indicate that a competitors product has greater efficacy than one of our products. If competitors introduce new products with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. 11 Table of Contents Principal competitors for the pharmaceutical market in which we do business include, but are not limited to, Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Apotex Inc., Aurobindo Pharma, Camber Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc, Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, Rising Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Strides Pharma Inc., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Viatris Inc., and Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA. Product Liability Product liability litigation represents an inherent risk to all firms in the pharmaceutical industry. We utilize traditional third-party insurance policies with regard to our product liability claims. Such insurance coverage at any given time reflects current market conditions, including cost and availability, when the policy is written. Human Capital As of January 2024, we have 642 employees, of which 569 are located in the United States, including Puerto Rico, 1 is located in Canada, and 72 are located in India. As of January 2023, we had 600 employees, of which 496 are located in the United States, including Puerto Rico, 48 located in Canada, and 56 are located in India. We occasionally use a small number of part-time and consultant resources to meet our operational needs and our turnover is in line with similar businesses in our industry and locations. Our Purpose and Core Values Our human capital management strategy is guided by our purpose and core values. Our purpose is Serving Patients, Improving Lives. Our core values are Patient First, Teamwork, Innovation, Integrity & Compliance, Accountability & Transparency, and Commitment to Excellence. We believe that our purpose and core values provide clarity, a shared language, and ultimately create what is distinctive about our company and our culture. We are motivated to bring our best to ANI every day by the patients we serve, the people we work with, the direct impact we have on the work, and the learning, growth and development opportunities we provide. Culture, Engagement, and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We believe that attracting, retaining, and promoting engagement for talented employees is critical to the success of our business, and we take pride in our values, culture, and communities. We are committed to creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive work environment within all levels of the business. As of the end of 2023, approximately 41% of our workforce identified as female and approximately 59% identified as male. In the same period, approximately 45% of our workforce identified as a person of color or indigenous person, with approximately 55% identifying as white. Furthermore, we do not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of gender, race, or ethnicity, or the use of child or forced labor. We value employee input, and conduct focus groups and survey employees on specific topics (e.g. approximately 25% of our employees participated in a benefits satisfaction survey in 2023). We offer ongoing training and career development to all employees, both through curriculum developed internally, and through external resources (e.g. LinkedIn Learning). Together, we own our culture and participate in ongoing open dialogue as we strive for continued growth. At ANI, we believe that no one should go without medicines that they need. In December 2022, we formed the ANI Rare Disease Patient Assistance Program, Inc. (ANI PAP) for the purpose of providing certain medicine for free to patients in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without assistance, cannot afford their medicine. In addition, ANI has provided patient-related financial support to nonprofit organizations that are aligned with ANIs mission to address unmet needs. Our charitable contributions support initiatives and programs that advance medical care or patient care within the Company's therapeutic areas of focus. Total Rewards ANIs Total Rewards Philosophy is grounded in pay for performance and seeks to provide compensation and benefits that are competitive within the pharmaceuticals industry, as well as competitive with local employers for jobs of a cross-industry nature. We pay fair and competitive salaries, short-term incentives, and long-term incentives that are informed by external market rates and internal equity. We recognize and reward employee performance, productivity, and alignment with ANIs Core Values. We believe that a holistic rewards strategy should also go beyond compensation and benefits to consider elements such as wellness and recognition. We support flexible and remote working arrangements throughout the business. 12 Table of Contents Health and Safety Management and Training We are committed to the safety and health of our employees, patient-customers, and the public. It is critical within our mission to ensure we keep our employees and customers safe while accomplishing our business goals. ANI has established a health and safety program with a focus on continuous improvement and employee engagement. ANI personnel are encouraged to take corrective actions where appropriate and to communicate concerns to management with a see something, say something approach. We recognize and reward personnel for contributing to the safety system within our working environment. The overall program continually evolves to reflect regulatory changes and compliance standard industry best practices. As part of onboarding new employees, we provide health and safety training and periodic training programs to maintain and improve employee awareness of safety issues. The goal of the safety training programs is to ensure that our staff are well informed on the subject matters and have the appropriate tools to make sound health and safety decisions in our day-to-day operations. Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability ANI is committed to Serving Patients, Improving Lives, both directly though our high-quality products, and through our environmental stewardship and sustainability practices. We strive to minimize waste and emissions, promote reuse and recycling, and conserve resources. We continue to increase our efforts and have formed an Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") Steering Committee to oversee cross-functional initiatives. The ESG Steering Committee reports to our Board of Directors through our Nominating and Governance Committee and is committed to providing progress updates at least twice per year. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We make available free of charge on our website (www.anipharmaceuticals.com) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website in the Investors Corporate Governance section are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and the charters for the Audit and Finance, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Information on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report or any other SEC filing. Copies of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials are available without charge upon written request to Investor Relations, c/o ANI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 210 Main Street West, Baudette, Minnesota, 56623. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K prior to investing in our common stock. These risks are discussed more fully in the section titled Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: Cortrophin Gel is our first rare disease pharmaceutical product. To the extent we are not able to continue to achieve commercial success with this product, including expanding the market and gaining market share, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be negatively impacted; Our approved products, including Cortrophin Gel, may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that will continue to allow us to achieve profitability; Acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results; The limited number of suppliers for our API could result in lengthy delays in production if we need to change suppliers; Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities and we must secure and maintain qualified and compliant contract manufacturers. Noncompliance by these contract manufacturers or our inability to find qualified contract manufacturers could result in us being unable to commercialize these products; Several of our products are manufactured and/or packaged by third parties, which we cannot control and could result in us being unable to market and distribute products; 13 Table of Contents We are subject to United States federal and state laws related to healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security, and the failure to comply with such laws may adversely affect our business; The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups that could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers; Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing on all products, and if we cannot meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall products from the market; Federal and state false claims litigation brought against us by private individuals and the government could result in civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and other related actions; The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors could result in increased costs to develop and market our products, delay new product introductions and reduce profit potential; Third-party payer actions may prevent us from effectively marketing our products or cause us to decrease pricing; Continuing studies of our products could produce results that could have a negative impact on our business; Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; Barriers in achieving anticipated revenue growth and profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Novitium Pharma LLC (Novitium); The obligations and liabilities of Novitium, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated, which may diminish the value of Novitium to us; Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics (such as COVID-19) have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business; The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs), which could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products; Four of our products are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs and we can offer no assurances that the FDA will not require us to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected; If the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) does not approve supply of the API we need to manufacture our controlled substances, we may be unable to manufacture controlled substances, which would eliminate our revenue on these products; Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products; Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions; We face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products; We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products; Production at any or all of our three current manufacturing facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver product on a timely basis; We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical studies. If these parties do not perform or are non-compliant, it could negatively impact the clinical trial and potential of regulatory approval; Further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products; Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products; With the exception of patents on a limited number of products we do not own or license any material patents associated with the majority of our products, and our ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how, and other technological innovation is limited; 14 Table of Contents Our success is largely dependent upon certain key employees, including members of our senior management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations; We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to operate the business effectively; We are involved in and may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time, which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation, and place a strain on our internal resources; We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial sums; Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods; Making interest and principal payments under our Credit Agreement with Truist requires a significant amount of cash; We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and the failure to maintain an effective system of internal