Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionCritical Accounting Estimates for a discussion of our accruals for chargebacks, rebates, returns, and other allowances. 18 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We market, sell, and distribute our products in the United States and internationally. Our products are distributed through the following channels: Wholesalers. We conduct business with the three major wholesalers in the United States: Cencora, Inc., Cardinal Health, and McKesson. Retail Market Chains. We conduct business with all the major retail chains in the United States which includes CVS, Rite Aid, Kroger, Walmart, and Walgreens. Distributors and Specialty Pharmacies. We have contracts with several major distributors and specialty pharmacies in the United States, including Anda, Smith Drug Company, Morris Dickson, CVS Caremark, Accredo, OptumRx, and CuraScript. We also have various agreements with international distributors for our ILUVIEN product. Group Purchasing Organizations. We have contracts with group purchasing organizations in the United States, such as ClarusONE, Walgreens Boots Alliance Development Group, Red Oak Sourcing, Econdisc, Optisource, Rx Sourcing Strategies, The Premier Group, Topco, The Buyers Consortium, Managed Health Care Associates Inc., Asembia, Premier Inc, and Kaiser Permanente. Specialty Pharmacies. In our Rare Disease and Brands segment we contract with specialty pharmacies. Hospitals, Clinics, and Physicians. In our Rare Disease and Brands segment, specifically for ILUVIEN and YUTIQ, we contract with certain hospital systems, clinics, and physician offices. Competition Certain of our products face limited competition due to complexities in formulation, active pharmaceutical ingredient sourcing, materials handling and manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles. Nevertheless, we compete with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, including large, global pharmaceutical manufacturers capable of addressing these complexities and hurdles with respect to products that we currently produce and products that are in our pipeline. In addition, our products are subject to competition from other generic products and non-prescription alternative therapies. Our brands portfolio of pharmaceutical products currently face competition from generic products and we expect them to continue to face competition from generic products in the future. In order to launch a generic product, a manufacturer must apply to the FDA for an ANDA showing that the generic product is therapeutically equivalent to the RLD. (See Government Regulation.) The primary means of competition among generic drug manufacturers are pricing, contract terms, service levels, and reliability. To compete effectively, we seek to consistently produce high-quality, reliable, and effective products. We also establish active working relationships with each of our customers, continually gather important market information in order to respond successfully to requests for proposals, maintain sufficient inventories to assure high service levels, and work to reduce product costs by sourcing and qualifying alternative suppliers whenever possible. Over the past several years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced significant consolidation, particularly in distribution channels and among generic and brand drug companies. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased the concentration of our wholesale customers. In addition, the number of retail market chains and, in particular, the number of independent drug stores and small chains, has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred, also increasing the concentration of our retail customers. As a result of this trend toward consolidation, a smaller number of companies each control a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels, which results in pricing pressure on our business and can result in a shift in sales to our competitors. In addition, consolidation among pharmaceutical companies has created opportunities by reducing the number of competitors. However, as competitors grow larger through consolidation, so do their resources. Larger competitors may be able to aggressively decrease prices in order to gain market share on certain products and may have resources that would allow them to market their products more effectively to potential customers. 19 Table of Contents Our sales can also be impacted by new studies that indicate that a competitors product has greater efficacy than one of our products. If competitors introduce new products with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. Principal competitors for the Generic pharmaceutical markets in which we do business include, but are not limited to: Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Apotex Inc., Aurobindo Pharma, Camber Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc, Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Rising Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Strides Pharma Inc., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Viatris Inc., and Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA. The principal competitor for Cortrophin Gel is Acthar Gel marketed by Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals. The principal competitors for ILUVIEN and YUTIQ are: DME Competitors Eylea (aflibercept) 4 mg and Eylea HD (aflibercept) 8 mg, marketed by Regeneron in the U.S. and by Bayer in the EEA; Vabysmo (faricimab-svoa), marketed by Genentech; Avastin (bevacizumab), Lucentis (ranibizumab injection), marketed by Genentech (Roche) in the U.S. and Novartis in the rest of the world; Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant), marketed by Allergan, an AbbVie company. NIU-PS Competitors Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant), marketed by Allergan, an AbbVie company; Xipere (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension 40 mg/ml) marketed by Bausch & Lomb; Retisert, marketed by Bausch and Lomb; Humira (adalimumab), marketed by AbbVie. Product Liability Product liability litigation represents an inherent risk to all firms in the pharmaceutical industry. We utilize traditional third-party insurance policies with regard to our product liability claims. Such insurance coverage at any given time reflects current market conditions, including cost and availability, when the policy is written. Human Capital As of January 2025, we have 897 employees, of which 720 are located in the United States, 112 in India, 28 in the United Kingdom, 18 in Germany, 11 in Portugal, 8 in Ireland, and 1 in Canada. We also utilize agency resources as well as a small number of part-time and consultant resources to meet our operational needs and our turnover is in line with similar businesses in our industry and locations. Our Purpose and Core Values Our human capital management strategy is guided by our purpose and core values. Our purpose is Serving Patients, Improving Lives. Our core values are Patient First, Teamwork, Innovation, Integrity & Compliance, Accountability & Transparency, and Commitment to Excellence. We believe that our purpose and core values provide clarity, a shared language, and ultimately create what is distinctive about our company and our culture. We are motivated to bring our best to ANI every day by the patients we serve, the people we work with, the direct impact we have on the work, and the learning, growth and development opportunities we provide. Culture, Engagement, and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We believe that attracting, retaining, and promoting engagement for talented employees is critical to the success of our business, and we take pride in our values, culture, and communities. We are committed to creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive work environment within all levels of the business. As of the end of 2024, approximately 42% of our workforce identified as female and approximately 58% identified as male. In the same period, approximately 45% of our workforce identified as a person of color or indigenous person, with approximately 55% identifying as white. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, we do not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind against anyone, or the use of child or forced labor. We value employee input, and conduct focus groups and survey employees on specific topics (e.g. approximately 30% of our employees participated in a benefits and wellness survey in 2024). We offer ongoing training and career development to all employees, both through curriculum developed internally, and through external resources (e.g. LinkedIn Learning). Together, we own our culture and participate in ongoing open dialogue as we strive for continued growth. At ANI, we believe that no one should go without medicines that they need. In December 2022, we formed the ANI Rare Disease Patient Assistance Program, Inc. (ANI PAP) for the purpose of providing certain medicine for free to patients in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without assistance, cannot afford their medicine. In addition, ANI has provided patient-related financial support to nonprofit organizations that are aligned with ANIs mission to address unmet needs. Our charitable contributions support initiatives and programs that advance medical care or patient care within the Company's therapeutic areas of focus. Total Rewards ANIs Total Rewards Philosophy is grounded in pay for performance and seeks to provide compensation and benefits that are competitive within the pharmaceuticals industry, as well as competitive with local employers for jobs of a cross-industry nature. We pay fair and competitive salaries, short-term incentives, and long-term incentives that are informed by external market rates and internal equity. We recognize and reward employee performance, productivity, and alignment with ANIs Core Values. We believe that a holistic rewards strategy should also go beyond compensation and benefits to consider elements such as wellness, recognition, and purpose. We support flexible and remote working arrangements throughout the business, as we are able. Health and Safety Management and Training We are committed to the safety and health of our employees, patient-customers, and the public. It is critical within our mission to ensure we keep our employees and customers safe while accomplishing our business goals. ANI has established a health and safety program with a focus on continuous improvement and employee engagement. ANI personnel are encouraged to take corrective actions where appropriate and to communicate concerns to management with a see something, say something approach. We recognize and reward personnel for contributing to the safety system within our working environment. The overall program continually evolves to reflect regulatory changes and compliance standard industry best practices. As part of onboarding new employees, we provide health and safety training and periodic training programs to maintain and improve employee awareness of safety issues. The goal of the safety training programs is to ensure that our staff are well informed on the subject matters and have the appropriate tools to make sound health and safety decisions in our day-to-day operations. Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability ANI is committed to Serving Patients, Improving Lives, both directly though our high-quality products, and through our environmental stewardship and sustainability practices. We strive to minimize waste and emissions, promote reuse and recycling, and conserve resources. We continue to increase our efforts and have formed an Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") Steering Committee to oversee cross-functional initiatives. The ESG Steering Committee reports to our Board of Directors through our Nominating and Governance Committee and is committed to providing progress updates at least twice per year. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We make available free of charge on our website (www.anipharmaceuticals.com) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website in the Investors Corporate Governance section are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and the charters for the Audit and Finance, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Information on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report or any other SEC filing. Copies of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials are available without charge upon written request to Investor Relations, c/o ANI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 210 Main Street West, Baudette, Minnesota, 56623. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K prior to investing in our common stock. These risks are discussed more fully in the section titled Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: Our approved products, including Cortrophin Gel, ILUVIEN and YUTIQ, may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that will continue to allow us to achieve profitability; Cortrophin Gel is our first rare disease pharmaceutical product. To the extent we are not able to continue to achieve commercial success with this product, including expanding the market and gaining market share, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be negatively impacted; We may fail to realize the benefits expected from our acquisition of Alimera and the combined company may not perform as we or the market expects; The limited number of suppliers for our API could result in lengthy delays in production if we need to change suppliers; Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities and we must secure and maintain qualified and compliant contract manufacturers. Noncompliance by these contract manufacturers or our inability to find qualified contract manufacturers could result in us being unable to commercialize these products; Several of our products are manufactured and/or packaged by single-sourced third parties, which we cannot control and could result in us being unable to market and distribute products; We are subject to United States federal and state laws related to healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security, and the failure to comply with such laws may adversely affect our business; Failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could subject us to government enforcement actions, private litigation and/or adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our operating results and business; Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products; Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions; We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products; Production at any or all of our three current manufacturing facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver product on a timely basis; We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical trials. If these parties do not perform or are non-compliant, it could negatively impact the clinical trial and potential of regulatory approval; further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products; Clinical trials for our products may not generate the outcomes we expect, may take longer or be more costly to complete than we anticipate; We may be adversely affected by the expiration of patents that protect key aspects of our products in the near- to medium-term; Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products; If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are material to our business; Our success is largely dependent upon certain key employees, including members of our senior management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations; We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to operate the business effectively; We are involved in and may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time, which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation, and place a strain on our internal resources; We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial sums; The obligations and liabilities of Alimera, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated, which may diminish the value of Alimera to us; Our operations in an international market subject us to additional regulatory oversight both in the international market and in the U.S., as well as, social, and political uncertainties, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; Our operations, including those resulting from our acquisition of Alimera, and its international operations, will subject us to political and economic risks, increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations; 22 Table of Contents Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results; Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing on all products, and if we cannot meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall products from the market; Federal and state false claims litigation brought against us by private individuals and the government could result in civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and other related actions; The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors could result in increased costs to develop and market our products, delay new product introductions and reduce profit potential; Third-party payer actions may prevent us from effectively marketing our products or cause us to decrease pricing; Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results; Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics (such as COVID-19) have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business; The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers; The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs), which could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products; Four of our products are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs and we can offer no assurances that the FDA will not require us to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected; If the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) does not approve supply of the API we need to manufacture our controlled substances, we may be unable to manufacture controlled substances, which would eliminate our revenue on these products; Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods; Our indebtedness and liabilities could limit the cash flow available for our operations and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation; To service our indebtedness, we will be required to generate a significant amount of cash; Our New Credit Agreement contain restrictive and financial covenants and if are not in compliance with these covenants, our outstanding indebtedness under this facility could be accelerated and the lenders could terminate their commitments under the facility; Certain risks relating to our 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2029 and related capped call transactions; and Raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to our current stockholders. Raising additional funds by entering into additional credit or other borrowing facilities or issuing debt may subject us to covenants and other requirements that may restrict our operations. The following are significant factors known to us that could materially harm our business, financial position, or operating results or could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statement made in this report. The risks described are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial position, and operating results could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business Our approved products, including Cortrophin Gel, ILUVIEN and YUTIQ, may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that will continue to allow us to achieve profitability and we may face substantial competition from competitors that discover, develop or commercialize competing products before or more successfully than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive, and the commercial success of our products or any of our future products or product candidates will depend on several factors, including our ability to differentiate any such products or product candidates from our competitors current or future products, including the creation of generic competitive products. We seek to develop, license, or acquire products that we can commercialize at levels of market acceptance that would allow us to recoup our costs, grow market share, and achieve profitability. However, we face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide with respect to our current products and to any future products or product candidates that we may develop or commercialize in the future. 23 Table of Contents Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products, if we fail to predict accurately demand for such products, or our competitors more effectively develop competitive products, that have few or less severe adverse side effects and have higher rates of acceptance by physicians, our business, financial position, and operating results could be adversely affected. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: our products pricing relative to that of our competitors; our marketing effectiveness relative to that of our competitors; timing of our market entry; our ability to market our products effectively to the retail level; and acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are outside of our control and, if any arise, our profitability, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Cortrophin Gel is our first rare disease pharmaceutical product. To the extent our ongoing and continuing efforts to commercialize this product are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. On October 29, 2021, we received approval from the FDA for our Cortrophin Gel product for the treatment of certain chronic autoimmune disorders, including acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis (MS) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), in addition to excess urinary protein due to nephrotic syndrome. We have devoted significant time and money to the development of this product since we acquired the rights to the product in 2016. We have invested and continue to invest significantly in the commercialization of this product in the U.S, including building out a sales force and developing a patient support program, with a full-scale launch in January 2022. In October 2023, we announced FDA approval and commercial availability of a 1-mLvial of Cortrophin Gel, appropriate for adjunctive treatment of certain patients with acute gouty arthritis flares. The ability for us to generate significant net product revenues from our Cortrophin Gel products will depend upon our ability to successfully sell the product and numerous other factors, including: successfully establishing and maintaining effective sales, marketing, and distribution systems in jurisdictions in which Cortrophin Gel is approved for sale successfully establishing and maintaining manufacturing capabilities with our third-party suppliers and CMOs and manufacturing adequate commercial quantities of Cortrophin Gel at acceptable cost and quality levels, including maintaining current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) and quality systems regulation standards required by various regulatory agencies broad acceptance of Cortrophin Gel by physicians, patients, and gaining market access share in the healthcare community the acceptance of pricing and placement of Cortrophin Gel on payers formularies and the associated tiers effectively competing with the only other competitor that has an approved adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) therapy product on the market, as well as other products that are in development or may be developed in the future as a treatment option continued demonstration of safety and efficacy of Cortrophin Gel in comparison to competing products or treatment options our ability to comply with ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review which may result in significant additional expense and may require labeling changes based on new safety information, post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate safety risks related to the use of Cortrophin Gel; and obtaining, maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property rights and claims. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors, we could experience an inability to successfully commercialize Cortrophin Gel, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, sales of Cortrophin Gel could be negatively affected by discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, problems with the facilities where the product is manufactured, or imposition of restrictions on Cortrophin Gel, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market, by a regulatory agency if it disagrees with the promotion, marketing, or labeling of the product. 24 Table of Contents We may enter into new lines of business that offer new products and/or services and we may have limited experience in marketing such new products and/or services, which may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may enter into new lines of business that offer new products and/or services. For example, in September 2024 we acquired Alimera, a global pharmaceutical company that specializes in the commercialization and development of ophthalmic retinal pharmaceuticals, which for us is a new line of business. Our lack of experience with or knowledge of such business or other new lines of business we may choose to enter, as well as external factors, such as competitive alternatives, potential conflicts of interest, either real or perceived, and shifting market preferences, may impact our implementation and operation of such new lines of business. Other risks of implementing new lines of business include: potential diversion of management's attention, available cash and other resources from our existing business; any determination by governmental agencies that any acquisition we undertake is anticompetitive in any relevant market; unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; compliance with new or increased regulatory burdens; potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; the cost of developing an in-house sales and marketing organization, which would require significant expenditures, management resources, and time; and the inability to compete effectively in the new line of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for API. Generally, only a single source of API is qualified for use in each product due to the costs and time required to validate a second source of supply. We may experience lengthy delays if we need to change an API supplier, which could have a material impact on business and results of operations. Our ability to manufacture and distribute products is dependent, in part, upon ingredients and components supplied by others, including entities based outside the U.S. During the year ended December 31, 2024, approximately 12%, of our raw material inventory purchases were from one domestic supplier. During the year ended December 31, 2023, no single vendor represented more than 10% of our raw material inventory purchases. During the year ended December 31, 2022 approximately 19%, of our raw material inventory purchases were from one domestic supplier. Any disruption in the supply of these ingredients or components or any problems in their quality could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and could result in legal liabilities that could materially affect our ability to realize profits or otherwise harm our business, financial, and operating results. We source the raw materials for our products from both domestic and international suppliers. Generally, we qualify only a single source of API for use in each product due to the cost and time required to validate and qualify a second source of supply. Any change in one of our API suppliers must usually be approved through a Prior Approval Supplement (PAS) by the FDA. The process of obtaining an approval of such a PAS can require between four and 18 months. While we also generally qualify a single source for non-API raw materials, the process required to qualify an alternative source of a non-API raw material is typically much less rigorous. If we were to change the supplier of a raw material for a product, the cost for the material could be greater than the amount we paid with the previous supplier. Changes in suppliers are rare but could occur as a result of a suppliers business failing, an issue arising from an FDA inspection, or failure to maintain our required standards of quality. As a result, we carefully select suppliers, based on various factors including quality, reliability of supply, and long-term financial stability. Certain of the API for our drug products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, are sourced from international suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of certain of such imported API due to FDA inspections. 25 Table of Contents Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities and are manufactured, packaged and/or distributed by third parties, which we cannot control. If we are unable to secure or maintain qualified contract manufacturers for those products, a contract manufacturer or distributor fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, or third-party manufacturers or distributors sustain delays in production and distribution of our products, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially, adversely affected. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, a variety of products that we seek to commercialize. Some of these products, including injectables, softgel capsules, and Cortrophin Gel, as well as ILUVIEN and YUTIQ, are products that we cannot currently manufacture in our facilities. As a result, we may seek partners to contract manufacture the products on our behalf, and we rely on single-source third parties to manufacture, package and/or distribute many of our products. Like our Company, these companies must comply with cGMPs and other federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding pharmaceutical manufacturing. Noncompliance by those companies may result in warning letters, fines, product recalls, and partial or total suspension of production and distribution. If we are unable to find qualified contract manufacturers or distributors or if a contract manufacturer or distributor fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, we may be unable to commercialize these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results, including an impairment of the acquired product. We expect our reliance on third party manufacturers to continue to increase in the future as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our collaborative arrangements, and as we seek additional growth opportunities outside of the capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to secure third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to market and distribute such products at a profit. In addition, manufacturers and distributors of our products may sometimes encounter difficulties in production and distribution. These problems include failure to meet target production costs and yields, failure to meet product release specifications, including stability of the product, quality assurance system failures, operator error and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters may also affect our manufacturers and distributors supply chains, which could negatively impact our ability to source materials and components to make our products and, in more severe cases, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, tornadoes or blizzards, eliminate the availability, or significantly increase the cost, of the components to make our products, sometimes for prolonged periods of time. The response of federal, state and local governmental bodies and agencies to climate change through regulations, mandates, reporting and disclosure requirements, taxes or levies could materially increase our or our manufacturers cost to operate or obtain product components at a reasonable price, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any of these situations could materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition. We cannot assure you that any product quality issues relating to the manufacture and/or distribution of our products or any future product candidates will not occur in the future. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers and/or distributors could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of these products, or future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to United States federal and state laws related to healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security, and the failure to comply with such laws may adversely affect our business. Many of our products are eligible for reimbursement under federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE, and/or state pharmaceutical assistance programs, and as a result, certain U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients rights are, and will be, applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The domestic and foreign laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: (i) the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, which applies to our marketing and research practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, as a means of inducing, or in exchange for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (ii) U.S. federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program payers that are false or fraudulent; (iii) new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; (iv) the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which among other things, requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Childrens Health Insurance Program to report annually information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians, physician assistants, advanced practice nurses and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, and similar state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industrys voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and may require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; (v) the government pricing rules applicable to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs program, the TRICARE program, and state price transparency reporting laws; and (vi) state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above U.S. laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services. Defense of litigation claims and government investigations can be costly, time-consuming, and distract management, and it is possible that we could incur judgments, settlements, deferred or non-prosecution agreements, or corporate integrity agreements that would require us to change the way we operate our business. We are committed to conducting the sales and marketing of our products in compliance with the healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but certain applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. Any adverse outcome in these types of actions, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing to comply with fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of the statutes and regulations that govern our activities, such as federal and state anti-kickback and false claims laws, are broad in scope, and while exemptions and safe harbors protecting certain common activities exist, they are often narrowly drawn and construed by the courts. While we manage our business activities to comply with these statutory provisions, due to their breadth, complexity and, in certain cases, uncertainty of application, it is possible that our activities could be subject to challenge by various government agencies. In particular, the FDA, the DOJ, the Office of Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and other agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the manufacturing, sales, marketing, research and similar activities of pharmaceutical companies in recent years, and many pharmaceutical companies have been subject to government investigations related to these practices. A determination that we are in violation of these and/or other government regulations and legal requirements may result in civil damages and penalties, criminal fines and prosecution, administrative remedies, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacturing and/or distribution activities, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any of these types of investigations or enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with data protection laws and regulations, we could be subject to government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our operating results and business. We are subject to data protection laws and regulations. In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state data breach notification laws, state health information and/or genetic privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health related and other personal information. In California, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) establishes certain requirements for data use and sharing transparency, and provides California residents certain rights concerning the use, disclosure, and retention of their personal data. The California Privacy Rights Act currently in effect, significantly amends the CCPA. Virginia, Colorado, Utah, and Connecticut have enacted privacy laws similar to the CCPA that impose new obligations or limitations in areas affecting our business, and similar laws are under consideration in other states. These laws and regulations are evolving and subject to interpretation and may impose limitations on our activities or otherwise adversely affect our business. The obligations to comply with the CCPA and evolving legislation may involve, among other things, updates to our notices and the development of new processes. We may be subject to fines, penalties, or private actions in the event of non-compliance with such laws. In addition, we may obtain health information from third parties (e.g., healthcare providers who prescribe our product) that are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their implementing regulations, (collectively, HIPAA). HIPAA imposes privacy and security obligations on covered entity health care providers, health plans, and health care clearinghouses, as well as their business associatescertain persons or entities that create, receive, maintain, or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a specified service or performing a function on behalf of a covered entity. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. Further at the federal level, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) also sets expectations for failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers personal information secure, or failing to provide a level of security commensurate to promises made to individual about the security of their personal information (such as in a privacy notice) may constitute unfair or deceptive acts or practices in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act). The FTC expects a companys data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. Individually identifiable health information is considered sensitive data that merits stronger safeguards. With respect to privacy, the FTC also sets expectations that companies honor the privacy promises made to individuals about how the company handles consumers personal information; any failure to honor promises, such as the statements made in a privacy policy or on a website, may also constitute unfair or deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act. While we do not intend to engage in unfair or deceptive acts or practices, the FTC has the power to enforce promises as it interprets them, and events that we cannot fully control, such as data breaches, may result in FTC enforcement. Enforcement by the FTC under the FTC Act can result in civil penalties or enforcement actions. EU Member States and other jurisdictions where we operate have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Switzerland has adopted laws that impose restrictions and obligations similar to the GDPR. The obligations and restrictions under the GDPR and Switzerlands laws concern, in particular, in some instances the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relate, the processing details disclosed to the individuals, the sharing of personal data with third parties, the transfer of personal data out of the EEA or Switzerland, contracting requirements (such as with clinical trial sites and vendors), and security breach notifications, as well as substantial potential fines, in some cases up to 4% of annual global turnover, for breaches of the data protection obligations. Data protection authorities from the different EU Member States and the EEA may interpret the GDPR and applicable related national laws differently which could effectively result in requirements additional to those currently understood to apply under the GDPR. In addition, guidance on implementation and compliance practices may be updated or otherwise revised, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU. When processing personal data of subjects in the EU, we have to comply with applicable data protection and electronic communications laws. In particular, as we rely on service providers processing personal data of subjects in the EU, we have to enter into suitable contract terms with such providers and receive sufficient guarantees that such providers meet the requirements of the applicable data protection laws, particularly the GDPR which imposes specific and relevant obligations. Enforcement by EU and U.K. regulators is active, and failure to comply with the GDPR or applicable Member State law may result in substantial fines. 28 Table of Contents Legal mechanisms to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EEA or U.K. to the U.S. may impact our ability to transfer personal data or otherwise may cause us to incur significant costs to do so legally. On July 16, 2020, the European Court of Justice ruled that the Privacy Shield is an invalid data transfer mechanism and confirmed that the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) remain valid. If companies are relying on the SCCs as their transfer mechanism to transfer personal information from the EEA to the U.S. (or to other jurisdictions not recognized as adequate by the EU), they must be incorporated into new and existing agreements within prescribed timeframes. The U.K. adopted versions of their own SCCs. Updating agreements to incorporate these new SCCs for the EEA and U.K. may require significant time and resources to implement, including through adjusting our operations, conducting requisite data transfer assessments, and revising our contracts. Companies that have not taken steps to demonstrate that their SCCs and personal data recipients in the U.S. or other non-adequate jurisdictions are suitable to receive the personal data may be subject to enforcement actions by competent authorities in the EU for failure to comply with related data privacy rules. Additionally, the European Commission adopted a draft adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, which reflects the assessment by the European Commission of the U.S. legal framework. The draft decision concludes that the U.S. ensures an adequate level of protection for personal data transferred from the EU to U.S. companies. After an approval process, the European Commission is expected to adopt the final adequacy decision, which will allow data to flow freely from the EU to the U.S. If we or our distributors fail to comply with applicable data privacy laws concerning, or if the legal mechanisms we or our distributors rely upon to allow, the transfer of personal data from the EEA or Switzerland to the U.S. (or other countries not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection) are not considered adequate, we could be subject to government enforcement actions, including an order to stop transferring the personal data outside of the EEA and significant penalties against us. Moreover, our business could be adversely impacted if our ability to transfer personal data out of the EEA or Switzerland to the U.S. is restricted, which could adversely impact our operating results. Failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could result in unfavorable outcomes, including increased compliance costs, delays or impediments in the development of new products, increased operating costs, diversion of management time and attention, government enforcement actions and create liability for us (which could include civil, administrative, and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity that could negatively affect our operating results and business. Our anticipated revenue growth and profitability, if achieved, is dependent upon our ability to develop, license or acquire, and commercialize new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors product introductions, and to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products. Our failure to do so successfully could impair our growth strategy and plans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our future revenues and profitability are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop, license or acquire, and commercialize pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. Product development is inherently risky and time-consuming. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to the supply of product meeting specifications and terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process also requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources. Additionally, we have entered profit-sharing or royalty arrangements with third parties in which we sell products under ANDAs or NDAs owned or licensed by these third parties. Under these agreements, we pay these third parties a specified percentage of the gross profit earned on sales of the products, and such percentages in certain cases increase as additional gross profit is earned. Any increases in these percentages would impact our future profitability. We may not be successful in commercializing products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. The FDA must approve any new prescription product before it can be marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and largely unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis for branded or generic products that we may develop, license, or acquire. Moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, we may be limited with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, which in turn could restrict the potential market for the drug. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory. In the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of any such inventory becoming obsolete. The timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results. 29 Table of Contents The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the FDA granting simultaneous final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces a generic firm to face immediate competition when it introduces a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. As a result, we could be unable to grow or maintain market share with respect to our generic pharmaceutical products, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market that product profitably and on our business, financial position, and operating results. Furthermore, if we are unable to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products in a timely manner, our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The FDA regulates and monitors all promotion and advertising of prescription drugs after approval. All promotion must be consistent with the conditions of approval and submitted to the agency. Failure to adhere to FDA promotional requirements can result in enforcement letters, warning letters, changes to existing promotional material, and corrective notices to healthcare professionals. Promotion of a prescription drug for uses not approved by the FDA can have serious consequences and result in lawsuits by private parties, state governments and the federal government, significant civil and criminal penalties, and compliance agreements that require a company to change current practices and prevent unlawful activity in the future. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products, and the estimates on which our accruals are based are subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased significantly due to our acquisitions and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our estimates of the amount of our product that will be prescribed to Medicaid beneficiaries. The resulting accruals are significant, and as Medicaid utilization trends change, we may need to change our estimates accordingly. We cannot guarantee that actual results will not differ from our estimates. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) included a significant expansion of state Medicaid programs. As more individuals become eligible for coverage under these programs, Medicaid utilization of our products could increase, resulting in a corresponding increase in our rebate payments. Increases in Medicaid rebate payments could decrease our revenues from product sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our accruals for the rebates under the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to growth and acquisitions. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our estimates of the amount of product that will be prescribed to patients in the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, which is primarily for the benefit of persons aged 65 years and over. As we acquire and launch additional products, many of which, are often used by patients in the 65 and older age range, our estimates of these rebates have grown. Increases in Medicare Coverage Gap Discount rebates, and legislative changes to the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program, could decrease our revenues from product sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products. Failure to successfully introduce products into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market approved products in accordance with applicable regulations. Research and development is expensive and time-consuming. As we seek to develop new products, or re-commercialize products that were previously approved, our research expenses will increase, potentially significantly, and we cannot be certain that we will recover our investment in a product, even if that product is commercialized. If we spend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able to introduce new products, our business, financial position, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents We produce the majority of our products in three manufacturing facilities. Production at any or all of these facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver sufficient product to customers on a timely basis and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our internal manufacturing operations are currently based in three facilities. We have transitioned products manufactured or packaged in Oakville to one of our three U.S.-based manufacturing sites. While these three facilities are sufficient for our current needs, the facilities are highly specialized and any damage to or need for replacement of all or any significant function of our facilities could be very costly and time-consuming and could impair or prohibit production and shipping. A significant disruption at any of the facilities, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, adverse quality or compliance observation, vandalism, natural disaster, fire, storm or other environmental damage, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products on a timely basis and, among other consequences, could subject us to failure to supply claims from our customers, as discussed below. Although we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, we might suffer losses because of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Virtually all of our contracts for the supply of generic products to our customers contain failure to supply clauses which require us to reimburse the customer for the difference between our contract price and the price the customer was forced to pay to procure the substitute product in the event we failed to deliver the requested quantity within a specified period of time. This difference can be substantial because of the much higher spot price at which the customer must cover its requirements and can be far in excess of the revenue that we would otherwise have received on the sale of our own product. Therefore, our ability to produce and ship a sufficient quantity of product on a consistent basis is critical. Failure to deliver products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. The NEW DAY clinical trial may fail to demonstrate the efficacy of ILUVIEN as baseline therapy in patients with early DME, fail to generate data demonstrating the benefits of ILUVIEN when compared to the current leading therapy for DME, take longer or be more costly to complete than we currently anticipateor fail to change physician prescribing practices. We are conducting our NEW DAY clinical trial, which is a multicenter, single-masked, randomized, controlled trial designed to generate prospective data evaluating ILUVIEN as a baseline therapy in the treatment of DME and demonstrate its potential advantages over the current standard of care of repeat anti-VEGF (aflibercept) injections. The NEW DAY clinical trial is fully enrolled as of May 2023 with 300 treatment-nave, or almost nave, DME patients in approximately 42 sites around the U.S. The NEW DAY clinical trial may fail to demonstrate the efficacy of ILUVIEN as baseline therapy in patients with early DME, fail to generate data demonstrating the benefits of ILUVIEN when compared to the current leading therapy for DME, or take longer or be more costly to complete than we currently anticipate, and/or fail to change physician prescribing practices despite a successful result. The occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows, and results of operations. We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as required or expected, or if they are not in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such trials. Further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products. We rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories, to assist with our clinical trials. We are responsible for confirming that our trials are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on these third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. If the third parties assisting us with our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDAs good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such trials. For our already-approved commercial products, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Clinical trials for our products may not generate the outcomes we expect, may take longer or be more costly to complete than we anticipate. From time to time, we initiate or participate in clinical trials for our products and may in the future participate in clinical trials or studies for other products. The timing of patient enrollment in these trials, and related costs, can be unpredictable, and any such trials or studies may be more expensive or take longer than we expect, data may be inconclusive, or such studies and trials may fail to change physician prescribing practices. Further, the outcome of continuing post-marketing clinical trials, such as NEW DAY and SYNCHRONICITY, may fail, take longer than anticipated to complete or, could produce negative results requiring us to submit reports to the FDA of adverse events involving the use of our products and we may be required to implement risk management programs, or discontinue product marketing as a result. In addition, ongoing post-approval drug safety surveillance of our products could result in the submission of adverse event reports to the FDA. In some cases, studies and safety surveillance programs have resulted, and in the future may result, in one or more of the following: product label changes including FDA-mandated Black Box warnings; risk management programs such as patient registries; reduced product sales due to concerns among patients and physicians; and discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur with respect to any of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Climate change concerns could disrupt our businesses, adversely affect client activity levels, adversely affect the creditworthiness of our counterparties, and damage our reputation. Climate change may cause extreme weather events that, among other things, could damage our facilities and equipment, injure our employees, disrupt operations at one or more of our primary locations, negatively affect our ability to service and interact with our clients, and adversely affect the value of our assets. Any of these events may increase our costs including our costs to insure against these events. Climate change may also have a negative impact on the financial condition of our clients, which may decrease revenues from those clients and increase the credit exposures to those clients. Additionally, our reputation and client relationships may be damaged as a result of our involvement, or our clients involvement, in certain industries associated with causing or exacerbating, or alleged to cause or exacerbate, climate change. We also may be negatively impacted by any decisions we make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to considerations relating to climate change. New regulations or guidance relating to climate change, as well as the perspectives of shareholders, employees, and other stakeholders regarding climate change, may affect whether and on what terms and conditions we engage in certain activities or offer certain products. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may be adversely affected by the expiration of patents that protect key aspects of ILUVIEN and YUTIQ in the near- to medium-term. The patent rights relating to ILUVIEN and YUTIQ licensed to us from EyePoint include one U.S. patent that will expire in August 2027, and has expired in the EU in October 2024, although extensions have been obtained or applied for through May 2027 in various EU countries. Otherwise, no patent term extension will be available for any of these U.S. patents, European patents or any of our licensed U.S. or European pending patent applications. After these patents expire in August 2027 in the U.S., we will not be able to block others from marketing FAc in an implant similar to ILUVIEN or YUTIQ. We rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of our products. In particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in our marketing of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and most major markets outside of the U.S. Patents covering our products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of our products. 32 Table of Contents As patents for certain of our products expire, we will or could face competition from lower priced generic or biosimilar products. In general, the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product may allow market entry by substitute products that could significantly reduce sales for the original product in a short amount of time. If our competitive position is compromised because of generics, biosimilars or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs or biosimilars. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the negative effect of generic competition. Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products. We own the trademark names for most of our branded products, including, Cortenema, Purified Cortrophin Gel, Cortrophin-Zinc, ILUVIEN, Inderal LA, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, Lithobid, Reglan, Vancocin, Veregen, and YUTIQ. We license the trademark names for Atacand, Atacand HCT, Arimidex, Casodex, and Oxistat. While we will seek to protect those trademarks through timely renewal in applicable jurisdictions, we may not be able to renew our trademarks in a timely manner or to prevent third parties from using our trademarks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are material to our business. Our licenses are material to our business, and we may enter into additional licenses in the future. We hold a license from EyePoint to intellectual property relating to ILUVIEN pursuant to the New Collaboration Agreement. Pursuant to the Product Rights Agreement with EyePoint, we also have the commercialization rights to YUTIQ in the entire world, except Europe, the Middle East and Africa as we had previously licensed from EyePoint rights to certain products, which included YUTIQ (known as ILUVIEN in Europe, the Middle East and Africa) for the prevention of relapse in recurrent NIU-PS in those territories. The Product Rights Agreement also excludes any rights to YUTIQ for the treatment and prevention of chronic NIU-PS in China and certain other countries and regions in Asia, which rights are subject to a pre-existing exclusive license between EyePoint Parent and Ocumension. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of our products depends upon the continuation of our agreements with EyePoint. The New Collaboration Agreement imposes various commercialization, milestone payment, royalty payments, insurance and other obligations on us, including the right by EyePoint to audit. If we fail to comply with these obligations, EyePoint may have the right to terminate the license. Our license rights to EyePoints proprietary insert technology utilized in ILUVIEN could revert to EyePoint in certain circumstances, including failure to cure contractual breaches and filing for bankruptcy protection. We have from time to time amended the New Collaboration Agreement, and we may again seek to do so in the future if the need arises. If our license with EyePoint, or any other current or future material license agreement, were terminated, or if we were unable to amend the New Collaboration Agreement or resolve any dispute related to such agreement, we may be unable to market the applicable products, such as ILUVIEN, that may be covered by such license, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects. 33 Table of Contents We do not control the commercialization of ILUVIEN in China, East Asia and the Western Pacific, and receipt of the value we currently anticipate will depend on, among other factors, Ocumensions ability to further commercialize ILUVIEN in that region. We have granted an exclusive license to Ocumension for the development and commercialization of our 0.19mg FAc intravitreal injection in China, East Asia and the Western Pacific. Our ability to receive aggregated potential sales milestone payments of up to $89.0 million depend upon achievement by Ocumension of specified amounts of net sales of ILUVIEN in that region in the future. However, we cannot assure you as to the amount, if any, we might receive. If there are any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to Ocumensions ability to commercialize ILUVIEN in China, East Asia and the Western Pacific, we may not realize the value we currently anticipate from this license, which would harm our business and may cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: regulatory hurdles in China, including related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or the geopolitical tensions between the U.S. and China; competition, whether from current competitors or new products developed by others in the future; claims relating to intellectual property; global economic conditions; disruptions in Ocumensions business; disappointing or lower than expected sales of ILUVIEN; disputes between Ocumension and us; or Ocumension deciding to modify, delay or halt its development and commercialization of ILUVIEN. If our license with Ocumension were terminated, or if Ocumension is unable to sell our licensed product, we will not receive any milestone payments under our license agreement, and our future revenues may be materially lower than expected. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property incorporated into our products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success depends largely on our ability or the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries for the intellectual property incorporated into our products. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We or our licensors may be unable to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain (including making periodic filings and payments) and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Under our license with EyePoint, EyePoint controls the filing, prosecution and maintenance of all patents. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute or continue to prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against entities that are infringing upon these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we ordinarily would. Without protection for the intellectual property that we own or license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Moreover, FAc is an off-patent active ingredient that is commercially available in several forms, including the extended release ocular implant Retisert. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, our patents and our licensors patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. 34 Table of Contents Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our commercialization of our current products or the development or regulatory approval of other product candidates. Our current products or any future products or product candidates may infringe upon other parties intellectual property rights that are protected by patents or patent applications. Third parties may now or in the future own or control these patents and patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses or divert substantial employee resources from our business. If those claims are successful, we could be required to pay substantial damages or could be prevented from developing any future product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay manufacturing, sales, research or development of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Several issued and pending U.S. patents claiming methods and devices for the treatment of eye diseases, including through the use of steroids, implants and injections into the eye, purport to cover aspects of our products. For example, one of our potential competitors holds issued and pending U.S. patents and a pending European patent application with claims covering injecting an ocular implant into a patients eye similar to our current products applicator. There is also an issued U.S. patent with claims covering implanting a steroidal anti-inflammatory agent to treat an inflammation-mediated condition of the eye. If these or any other patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be valid and to cover aspects of our current products, then the owners of such patents would be able to block our ability to commercialize our current products unless and until we obtain a license under such patents (which license might require us to pay royalties or grant a cross-license to one or more patents that we own), until those patents expire or unless we are able to redesign our products to avoid any such valid patents. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from a third-party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, or be prevented from commercializing a product if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding, regardless of its merit, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may, regardless of their merit, also absorb significant management time and employee resources. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are inadequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. The strength of our patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. In addition to the rights we have licensed from EyePoint relating to ILUVIEN and YUTIQ, we rely upon intellectual property we own, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. Moreover, it is possible that a third-party could successfully challenge the scope (i.e., whether a patent is infringed), validity and enforceability of our licensed patents before patent expiration and obtain approval to market a competitive product. 35 Table of Contents Further, the patent applications that we license or have filed may fail to result in issued patents. Patent examiners have rejected some claims in pending patent applications that we have filed or licensed. We may need to amend these claims. Even after amendment, a patent may not be permitted to issue. Further, the existing or future patents to which we have rights based on our New Collaboration Agreement with EyePoint may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. Additionally, we may lose our rights to the patents and patent applications we license in the event of a breach or termination of our license agreement with EyePoint. Manufacturers may also seek to obtain approval to sell generic versions of our products before the expiration of the relevant licensed patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents we license with respect to our products or the patents we pursue related to our products or any future product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to commercialize our products and develop any future product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials for any future product candidate, the period during which we could market those product candidates under patent protection would be reduced. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our development processes with respect to our current products that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Any involuntary disclosure or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential or proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. We seek to protect confidential or proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the U.S. and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market. 36 Table of Contents Our success is largely dependent upon certain key employees, including members of our senior management team, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations. Competition for talent is intense, especially in northern Minnesota, where the population is small. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, the growth and success of our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of certain key employees, including members of our senior management team. We have employment arrangements in place with our executive and other officers, but none of these executive and other officers are bound legally to remain employed with ANI for any specific term. We do not have key person life insurance policies covering our executive and other officers or any of our other employees. If key individuals were to leave ANI, our business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. Competition for personnel is intense in certain localities in which we operate, specifically northern Minnesota, where two of our three current manufacturing facilities are located, is small, and as a result, there is a limited number of qualified personnel available in all functional areas, which could make it difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate the business effectively. We rely significantly on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to effectively manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers in a timely manner. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, any failure, accidents, inadequacy, or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers timely depends significantly on our general ledger, our contracted electronic data interface system, and other information systems. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cybersecurity incidents resulting in the failure of our information systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security or other unauthorized access of these systems, may affect our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, and result in delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of operations. A breach in security, unauthorized access resulting in misappropriation, theft, or sabotage with respect to proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. See Cybersecurity Risk management and strategy, Item 1C of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. We are currently involved in and may from time to time become involved in legal proceedings, some of which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation, and place a strain on our internal resources. We are currently involved in, and in the future may become involved in, legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business, as a party or non-party witness, with both private parties and certain government agencies. We may incur substantial time and expenses participating in these types of lawsuits and investigations, which could also divert managements attention from ongoing business concerns and normal operations. In addition, these matters and any other substantial litigation may result in verdicts against us or government enforcement actions, which may include significant monetary awards, and preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. Any dispute resolved unfavorably, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. For a description of legal proceedings which are currently pending, see Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 37 Table of Contents We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial sums. Like all pharmaceutical companies, we face the risk of loss resulting from, and the adverse publicity associated with, product liability lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. We likely cannot avoid such claims. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products or product candidates would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers, patients and clinical trial participants. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could require us to spend money on litigation, divert managements time, damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products. In addition, although we believe that we have adequate product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that our insurance will, in fact, be sufficient to cover such claims or that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at acceptable prices. A successful product liability claim that is excluded from coverage or exceeds our policy limits could require us to pay substantial sums. Additionally, insurance coverage for product liability may become prohibitively expensive in the future or may not be available at all, and as a result, we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage to mitigate the risk of large claims, or we may be required to maintain a larger self-insured retention that we would otherwise choose. We may fail to realize thebenefits expected from our acquisition of Alimera and the combined company may not perform as we or the market expects, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. On September 16, 2024, we completed our previously announced acquisition (the Merger) of Alimera pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 21, 2024 (the Merger Agreement), by and among the Company, Alimera and ANIP Merger Sub INC., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub). The anticipated benefits we expect from this acquisition include, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the combined company and operating efficiencies and these benefits are, necessarily, based on projections and assumptions about the combined businesses of our Company and Alimera, which may not materialize as expected or which may prove to be inaccurate. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from the Merger on a timely basis or at all. Achieving the benefits of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to integrate the business, operations and products of Alimera successfully and efficiently with our business. The combined company may not perform as we or the market expects. Risks associated with the combined company following the Merger include: integrating businesses is a difficult, expensive, and time-consuming process, and the failure to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of Alimera timely would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation; there may be inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that will need to be reconciled; the Merger has materially increased the size of our operations, and if we are not able to effectively manage our expanded operations, our common stock price may be adversely affected; it is possible that our key employees or key employees of Alimera might decide not to remain with us, and the loss of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects of the combined company; the success of the combined company will also depend upon relationships with third parties and Alimeras or our pre-existing customers, which relationships may be affected by customer preferences or public attitudes about the Merger. Any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect the combined companys business, financial condition, and results of operations; unanticipated write-offs or charges. In connection with the Merger we recorded goodwill and intangible assets in the fair value amount of the acquisition. If we conclude that some portion of such goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded against earnings; our expansion into international operations as a result of the Merger (as discussed below); incurrence of significant costs in connection with consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of Alimera into our business; the potential for securities class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits that may be brought as a result of the Merger, including costs associated with defending such lawsuits; and our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we assumed in the Merger could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other known and unknown liabilities which could result in adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. The occurrence of any of these Merger-related events individually or in combination could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents The obligations and liabilities of Alimera, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated, which may diminish the value of Alimera us. Alimeras obligations and liabilities, some of which may not have been disclosed to us or may not be reflected or reserved for in Alimeras historical financial statements, may be greater than we have anticipated. The obligations and liabilities ofAlimera could have a material adverse effect on Alimeras business or Alimeras value to us or on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under the Merger Agreement, we have only limited indemnification with respect toobligations or liabilities of Alimera, whether known or unknown. In addition, even in cases where we are able to obtainindemnification, we may discover liabilities greater than the contractual limits or the financial resources of the indemnifying party. In the event that we are responsible for liabilities substantially in excess of any amounts recoveredthrough rights to indemnification or alternative remedies that might be available to us, or any applicable insurance, wecould suffer severe consequences that would substantially reduce our earnings and cash flows or otherwise materially andadversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and expenses, including fees for professional services and other transaction costs, in connection with the Merger, including costs that we may not currently expect. There are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these costs and expenses. We must pay substantially all of the costs and expenses whether or not the transaction is completed. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. To the extent these acquisition and integration expenses are higher than anticipated, we may experience liquidity or cash flow issues. In connection with the Merger, we recorded goodwill and intangible assets and if either goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, our earnings could be significantly impacted. Under current accounting methods, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. In connection with the Merger, we recorded goodwill and intangible assets in the fair value amount of such acquisition. Although we do not anticipate impairment charges, if we conclude that some portion of such goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded against earnings. A goodwill impairment charge could be caused by a decline in our stock price or the occurrence of a triggering event that compounds negative financial results. Therefore, if goodwill recorded in connection with the Merger becomes impaired, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. The Merger may become the target of derivative lawsuits that could result in substantial costs in connection with the Merger. We may incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of Alimera into our business operations. Securities class action and derivative lawsuits are often brought against public companies that have entered into merger agreements and have consummated acquisitions. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain, but regardless of the outcome of any such lawsuits, we may incur significant fees and expenses relating to legal services (including any costs that would be incurred in defending against any potential derivative lawsuits in connection with the Merger if any such proceedings are brought), accounting and other fees and costs, associated with consummating the Merger. Our business is subject to political, economic, legal, and social risks, and if we fail to successfully manage our domestic and international operations, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. There are significant regulatory, economic and legal barriers in markets in the U.S. and outside the U.S. that we must overcome. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory, and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development, and investment, and any negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business and decrease our anticipated revenue growth and profitability. Further, in connection with the merger we have acquired direct international operations outside of the U.S., and are marketing products outside the United States, that cover the United Kingdom and much of Europe and the Middle East. We have not historically conducted any operations or marketed any of our products outside the United States. As a result of the closing of the Merger, the percentage of our revenues generated outside of the United States increased materially, and our new international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. 39 Table of Contents There is a high level of regulation in all markets where the products we acquired from Alimera have been sold and great diversity in how those markets operate. Consequently, experience and expertise will be required in understanding the market dynamics of each country, the rules and regulations in place governing the sale of medicines, the codes of practice governing promotion of medicines, different currencies, the financial frameworks applying to taxation (both corporate and value-added tax) and the need to communicate in different languages. We also import inputs for certain products, including API, from international suppliers. As a result, our operations may be affected by challenges to the global supply chain, including increased costs of API and other inputs for our products. The U.S. government recently announced tariffs on products manufactured in several jurisdictions, including China, Mexico and Canada. and has made announcements regarding the potential imposition of tariffs on other jurisdictions. Some countries have, and other countries may in the future, implement trade restrictions and/or retaliatory measures as well. Any such trade restrictions or measures could affect our operations, our imports into the U.S. and other countries and our supply chains. Moreover, Alimeras international operations rely on distributors in many countries to provide adequate levels of experience and expertise on its behalf, and we will now rely on those distributors. We need to monitor and manage these relationships appropriately to address risks in these markets. Conducting extensive international operations subjects us to risks that are inherent in international operations, including: extended collection timelines for accounts receivable and greater working capital requirements; multiple, conflicting legal systems and unexpected changes in legal requirements such as privacy and data protection laws and regulations, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; tariffs, export restrictions, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets, including China and certain other parts of Asia, Mexico and Canada; changes in currency exchange rates; currency transfer and other restrictions and regulations that may limit our ability to sell our products internationally or repatriate profits to the United States; difficulties adapting to new cultures, business customs, and legal systems; trade laws and business practices favoring local competition; potential tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, resulting from multiple, conflicting and complex tax laws and regulations; weaker intellectual property protection in some countries; natural disasters, political, economic, and social instability, including the effects of ongoing U.S.-China diplomatic and trade friction, social unrest in China, the recent conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, Israel and Hamas, within the Middle East, and global sanctions imposed in response thereto, the possibility of a wider European or global conflict, or other war or terrorist activities or the threat of war and terrorism; and adverse economic conditions, including increasing inflation and the stability and solvency of business financial markets, financial institutions and sovereign nations. In particular, regulatory oversight of pharmaceutical products, including production, marketing and sales, can vary significantly among countries and will require additional oversight by our compliance and marketing teams. We need to spend significantly more time and invest in additional resources to ensure compliance with regulatory regimes outside the United States. Similarly, there are often supply chain risks that are specific to a given region, and our expansion outside the United States exposes us to additional risks and expenses related thereto. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. There can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents As a result of the consummation of the Merger, we need to meet certain additional requirements for our international operations, including adequate levels of reimbursement and various regulatory approvals, and our inability to meet these requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. Following the consummation of the Merger, we now have certain additional requirements that we need to meet in order to engage in international operations. For example, in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the United Kingdom, each country has a different reviewing body that evaluates reimbursement dossiers submitted by marketing authorization holders of new drugs and then makes recommendations as to whether or not the drug should be reimbursed. Limitations on reimbursement could be imposed at the national, regional or local level or by fiscal intermediaries in each country, either through the initial authorization process or at some point in the future. In addition, due to price referencing within the EEA, the United Kingdom and certain other countries, existing pricing in our current markets could be negatively affected by a change in pricing in a country where Alimera historically has reimbursement or by a new price in a country where we obtain reimbursement approval in the future. Our business could also be adversely affected if governments, private insurers or other reimbursing bodies or payers limit the indications for reimbursement approval to a smaller subset than we believe our products are effective in treating or establish a limit on the frequency with which our products may be administered that is less often than we believe would be effective. Those actions could limit our revenues and harm our business. We also need to maintain current or obtain marketing authorization and commercialization rights in countries outside the United States. Certain countries, such as those in the EEA, require minimum sales within three years or licenses may be revoked if extensions are not negotiated. Alimera did not and we do not currently have rights in China and certain other parts of Asia. As a result of the Merger, in order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we are required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may not receive the necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any additional market. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances in jurisdictions where our products are not approved will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense incurred, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of preclinical and clinical tests that will be required for regulatory approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition for which the drug candidate is in development, the jurisdiction in which we are seeking approval and the regulations applicable to that particular drug candidate. The applicable regulatory authorities may make requests or suggestions regarding our clinical trials, resulting in an increased risk of difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval. For example, the regulatory authorities may not approve of certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data, including how we evaluate the relationship between risk and benefit. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain additional foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. As a result of the consummation of the Merger, our reliance on third parties to manufacture and test certain of our products will increase, and if any of these third parties is unable to satisfy our demand, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Alimera did not have in-house manufacturing capability and depended entirely on single source third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of its products; following the consummation of the Merger, we rely on these third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of the products we acquired from Alimera, including for supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients, the product applicator, the product implants, and the final assembly of the injectors with the implants. In addition, Alimera relied, and we now rely, on third parties for the quality release testing. If any of these third-party manufacturers breaches its agreement, is unable to meet its contractual or quality requirements or becomes unwilling to perform for any reason, we may be unable, in a timely manner or at all, to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers or testing facilities, as applicable, enter into favorable agreements with them and ensure that they are approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, such as the FDA. For example, Alimera relied, and we now rely, on (subject to certain exceptions) the YUTIQ Supply Agreement with EyePoint for the manufacturing and supply of YUTIQ, which has an initial term of two years through May 2025. On February 27, 2025, the Company received written notice of non-renewal from EyePoint of the YUTIQ Supply Agreement, effective May 31, 2025. The Company has submitted a PAS to the FDA seeking to add YUTIQs indication of chronic NIU-PS to the ILUVIEN label. The Company expects FDA approval of the PAS in the second quarter of 2025 and plans to market ILUVIEN for chronic NIU-PS in addition to its current indication of DME in the U.S. In order to support the transition to of NIU-PS to ILUVIEN, in July 2024, the Company extended its partnership with Siegfried, its long-term supplier for ILUVIEN, through 2029, and contracted with Siegfried to upgrade equipment on the existing manufacturing line and significantly expand capacity through the addition of a second manufacturing line. If the PAS approval is delayed, or not approved at all, or we are unable to timely transfer manufacturing to Siegfried or another replacement supplier or make other arrangements to supply product, we may not be able to fulfill demand for 41 Table of Contents YUTIQ and / or the NIU-PS indication in the U.S. market. In addition, on July 12, 2024, EyePoint received a warning letter from the FDA alleging violations of current good manufacturing practice (CGMP) requirements in connection with a February 2024 FDA inspection and associated February 2024 Form FDA-483 specifically related to the manufacturing of YUTIQ at the suppliers facility (the Warning Letter). The Warning Letter requires the supplier to implement certain corrective and preventive actions. Any failure by the supplier to remediate to the FDAs satisfaction these findings or any future findings the FDA may have, could result in the supply of YUTIQ being adversely effected or terminated, and our ability to fulfill demand for YUTIQ prior to the addition of NIU-PS to the ILUVIEN label could be materially impaired. Additionally, we may experience lengthy delays if we need to change a third-party supplier or manufacturer, including for YUTIQ, which could have a material impact on business and results of operations. Further, suppliers and manufacturers for the products we acquired from Alimera rely on additional third parties for the manufacture of component parts. Any inability of these contract manufacturers to acquire sufficient quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients and other component parts in a timely manner from these third parties could delay commercial production of YUTIQ or ILUVIEN. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to fulfill demand for the acquired products and / or indications. In addition, any of these events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results, including an impairment of the acquired assets, or cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results. Our growth will depend, in part, on our continued ability to develop, commercialize, and expand our products, including in response to changing regulatory and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we have and may continue to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates or products can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete or successfully execute strategies for identified acquisitions. The risks faced in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition and/or product integration challenges; coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions; retention of key employees from the acquired company; integration of the acquired companys accounting information, management, human resources, and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; difficulties relating to integrating the acquired business; liability for activities of the acquired company and/or products before the acquisition, including patent infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company or product, including claims from product users, former stockholders, or other third parties. In any acquisition that we may undertake, our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Risks Related to our Industry Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business. The COVID-19 pandemic previously adversely affected us in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the COVID-19 pandemic or other actual or threatened public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics may in the future adversely affect, among other things, the economic and financial markets and labor resources of the countries in which we operate; our manufacturing and supply chain operations, research and development efforts, commercial operations and sales force, administrative personnel, third-party service providers, and business partners and customers; and the demand for our products. 42 Table of Contents Such disruptions in our operations could materially adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. To the extent a public health outbreak, epidemic, or pandemic adversely affects our business, prospects, operating results, or financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Consolidation and the formation of strategic partnerships among and between wholesale distributors, chain drug stores, and group purchasing organizations has resulted in a smaller number of companies, each controlling a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels. For example, our net revenues are concentrated among four customers representing 25%, 16%, 12%, and 11% of net revenues, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2024, accounts receivable from these four customers was approximately 70% of our accounts receivable, net. Drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains, which represent an essential part of the distribution chain for generic pharmaceutical products, have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in declines in our sales volumes if a customer is consolidated into another company that purchases products from a competitor. In addition, the consolidation of drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains could result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business and enabling those groups to charge us increased fees. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. The result of these developments or the loss of our relationship with one or more of these wholesalers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any determination that we have failed to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes. Any determination by governmental agencies that we have failed to comply with our reporting and payment obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Four products, which together comprised less than 10% of our total revenue in 2024, are marketed without approved NDAs or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) and we can offer no assurances that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will not require us to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Four products, Esterified Estrogen with Methyltestosterone (EEMT), Opium Tincture, Thyroid Tablets, and Hyoscyamine are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. The FDA's policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products appears in the FDA's September 2011 Compliance Policy Guide Sec. 440.100 titled Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs. Under this policy, the FDA has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products. The FDA evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those with potential safety risks or that lack evidence of effectiveness. We continue to believe that, so long as we comply with applicable manufacturing standards, the FDA will continue to operate on a risk-based approach and will not take action against us. However, we can offer no assurance that the FDA will continue to follow this approach or that it will not take a contrary position with any individual product or group of products. Additionally, our EEMT products are related to an outstanding Notice of Opportunity for Hearing on estrogen-androgen products. The hearing relates to the FDA's intent to reclassify certain estrogen-androgen combination drugs as lacking substantial evidence of their effectiveness for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with the menopause in those patients not improved by estrogen alone. 43 Table of Contents If the FDA were to move away from the risk-based approach to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products, we may be required to seek FDA approval for these products or withdraw such products from the market. If we decide to withdraw the products from the market, our net revenues for generic pharmaceutical products would decline materially, and if we decide to seek FDA approval, we would face increased expenses and might need to suspend sales of the products until such approval was obtained, and there are no assurances that we would receive such approval. Imported API are subject to inspection by the FDA and the FDA can refuse to permit the importation of API for use in products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. We are dependent on imported API to make certain of our products. If the FDA detained or refused to allow the importation of such API of if tariffs or other governmental action make the import of such API costly, our revenues from certain of our products would be reduced or eliminated and our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We source some of the API for our products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, from international suppliers. From time to time, due to FDA inspections, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of imported API. Any prolonged disruption in the supply of imported API or increased costs due to tariffs could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products, reduce or eliminate our revenues, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, as regulatory fees and compliance oversight of API manufacturers increase, this could result in certain companies discontinuing their supply of API to us, which would materially affect our ability to manufacture our products. The FDA does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT, Opium Tincture, and Thyroid Tablets, and Hyoscyamine. Pharmaceutical product labels contain important safety information including Black Box warnings, contraindications, dosing and administration, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific populations such as pregnant women, pediatric, and geriatric patients, and other warnings and precautions. Pharmaceutical manufacturers may change product labels when post-approval drug safety surveillance programs identify previously unknown side-effects, drug interactions, and other risks. Manufacturers may also change product labels after conducting post-approval clinical studies and may receive or seek guidance from the FDA regarding updating safety labeling information. However, the FDA does not provide guidance on labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT, Opium Tincture, Thyroid Tablets, and Hyoscyamine. Additionally, because the FDA does not review and approve labeling for the products without approved NDAs or ANDAs, it would be difficult to make a claim for preemption due to the FDAs approval of the labeling and this could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products. Such claims, even if successfully defended, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. We are entirely dependent on periodic approval by the DEA for the supply of the API needed to manufacture our controlled substances. An inability to obtain such approvals would reduce or eliminate our revenues for our controlled substances, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, we are subject to strict regulation by the DEA and are subject to sanctions if we are unable to comply with related regulatory requirements. The DEA regulates products containing controlled substances, such as opiates, pursuant to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act (CSA). The CSA and DEA regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security, and distribution. Recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored, and distributed. Companies handling controlled substances also are required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. 44 Table of Contents In addition, each year, we must submit a request to the DEA for a procurement quota in order to purchase the amount of API needed to manufacture our Schedule II controlled substances. Without approved procurement quotas from the DEA, we would not be able to purchase these ingredients from our suppliers. As a result, we are entirely dependent upon the DEA to approve, on an annual basis, a quota of API that is sufficiently large to support our plans for the continued manufacture of our controlled substances at commercial levels. In 2017, the DEA announced that the administration would decrease the total quotas approved for Schedule II opioid painkillers. In 2018, the DEA decreased quotas approved for Schedule II opioid painkillers. The DEA continues to closely monitor quotas of certain opioids and as a result there may be a reduction from what was requested; however, firms may file an application for a quota adjustment at any time during the calendar year. If the DEA does not approve our requested procurement quotas, we may be unable to obtain sufficient API to manufacture these products at levels required by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our products are subject to regulatory and quality standards and guidelines set forth by FDA and other governmental agencies. Changes or developments in such standards and guidelines may affect the ability of our products to meet such standards, including with respect to already approved products. If our products are not able to meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market. Changes or developments in regulatory and quality standards and guidelines set forth by FDA, such as criteria for residual solvents, periodic guidance from the FDA regarding testing for impurities, such as nitrosamines, in our products, and updated U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention (USP) Reference Standards may impact our ability to sell certain drug products. The USP is a scientific nonprofit organization that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed, and consumed worldwide. Pharmaceutical products approved prior to the implementation of new or revised quality standards, including those produced or sold by us, may not meet these standards, which could require us to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, results of periodic testing we conduct on our products may indicate the presence of substances at levels greater than those deemed acceptable under FDA or other standards, which could potentially require a recall of the product. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2019, testing of the API used in our ranitidine drug product, as well as testing of the drug product itself, indicated a level of a nitrosamine impurity called N-nitrosdimethylamine (NDMA) above acceptable thresholds. NDMA is classified as a probable human carcinogen. Appco Pharma, LLC, with whom we had partnered to develop and market the product, initiated a voluntary recall, and we elected to exit the market for Ranitidine in 2019. For a description of legal proceedings which are currently pending relating to ranitidine, see Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In December of 2021, the FDA issued an information request to all manufacturers of propranolol products, including Inderal LA (Propranolol ER) currently being marketed by ANI in the United States to evaluate their product for the presence and level of a nitrosamine impurity known as N-nitroso-propranolol (NNP), which is distinct from NDMA. We undertook a review and analysis of NNP, working with testing and toxicology experts, and communicated with the FDA on the scientific bases for establishing appropriate acceptable daily intake for NNP and the appropriate approach for propranolol products in the U.S. On August 4, 2023, the FDA issued final guidance on acceptable intake limits for nitrosamine drug substance-related impurities (NDSRIs), with recommended limits for propranolol products of 1500 mg/day. Based on this guidance, we were able to continue sales of the product to our customers. We may become subject to federal and state false claims litigation brought by private individuals and the government. We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal False Claims Act (FFCA), also known as qui tam, imposes civil liability and criminal fines on individuals or entities that knowingly submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the FFCA and other similar laws may result in criminal fines, imprisonment, and civil penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from federally funded health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The FFCA also allows private individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the government against an individual or entity for violations of the FFCA. These suits, also known as qui tam actions, may be brought, with only a few exceptions, by any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. These suits have increased significantly in recent years because the FFCA allows an individual to share in any amounts paid to the federal government from a successful qui tam action. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Actions brought against ANI for violations of these laws, even if successfully defended, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. 45 Table of Contents The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors, both branded and generic, including authorized generics, citizens petitions, and legislative proposals, may increase the costs to develop and market our generic products, could delay or prevent new product introductions, and could significantly reduce our profit potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue legal, regulatory, and/or legislative strategies to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; launching a generic version of their own branded product at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; filing citizen petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of generic product approvals; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or meet other approval requirements; initiating legislative and regulatory efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement that may delay regulatory approval of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic product; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of branded drugs in pediatric populations or by other potential methods; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of branded name drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the branded company to obtain new patented products serving as substitutes for the products withdrawn; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. If we cannot compete with such strategies, our business, financial position, and operating results could be adversely impacted. If third-party payers deny coverage, substitute another companys product for our product, or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage, choose to provide coverage for a competitors bioequivalent product rather than our product, or offer limited reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary, or inappropriate. Prices also could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or limit reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant additional costs. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal authorities, including the FDA, the DEA, and state governmental authorities and their respective foreign equivalents. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of our products. Noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements can have a broad range of consequences, including warning letters, fines, seizure of products, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and distribution, refusal to approve NDAs or other applications or revocation of approvals previously granted, withdrawal of product from marketing, injunctions, withdrawal of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct business, disqualification from supply contracts with the government, civil penalties, debarment, and criminal prosecution. 46 Table of Contents All U.S. facilities where prescription drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed must comply with FDA current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). All of our products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all applicable regulations. If it finds violations of cGMP, the FDA could make its concerns public and could impose sanctions including, among others, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDAs review of product applications, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. If imposed, enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs in place that we believe are adequate, the FDA may conclude that these programs do not meet regulatory standards. If compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. government has enacted the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. All prescription pharmaceutical products distributed in the U.S. must be serialized with unique product identifiers. ANI started manufacturing serialization-compliant products in November 2018. The DSCSA establishes national traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the bottle level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and requires all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system by November 2023. In August 2023, however, the FDA established a one-year stabilization period to allow trading partners to implement, troubleshoot and mature their electronic interoperable systems. The FDA expects trading partners to use this stabilization period, which expired on November 27, 2024, to build and validate interoperable systems and processes, manage products and data, and ensure continuity of the supply chain and product availability to patients. The Company continues to provide serialized commercial products as required to comply with the DSCSA. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Companys operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. Our research, product development, and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs in complying with numerous laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture such products, and resulting waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts, from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We may also incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We are also subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to, federal, state, and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination, and whistle-blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results. Any of our products that are distributed, tested or marketed outside the U.S. are also subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments, whether or not we have obtained FDA approval for a given product and its uses. Such foreign regulation may be equally or more demanding than corresponding U.S. regulation. Our operations in an international market subject us to additional regulatory oversight both in the international market and in the U.S., as well as, social, and political uncertainties, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We are subject to certain risks associated with having assets and operations located in foreign jurisdictions. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, and increased government regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. 47 Table of Contents Additionally, involvement in a war or other military action or international acts of terrorism may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in (i) delays or cancellations of customer orders, (ii) a general decrease in consumer spending on healthcare technology, (iii) our inability to effectively market and distribute our products internationally (iv) our inability to timely engage with and collect payment from our customers or (v) our inability to access capital markets, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in response to the continued conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the United States has imposed and may further impose, and other countries may additionally impose, broad sanctions or other restrictive actions against governmental and other entities in Russia. Additionally, further escalation of geopolitical tensions, such as the conflict in the middle east and the surrounding areas, and conflicts related to the attacks on cargo ships in the Red Sea, could have a broader impact that extends into other markets where we do business. We are unable to predict whether acts of international terrorism or the involvement in a war or other military actions by the United States and/or the countries in which we sell or distribute our products will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such involvement or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Healthcare reform and changes in pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and coverage, by governmental authorities and third-party payors may materially affect our business, financial position and operating results. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of, and reimbursement for healthcare services in the U.S. generally and prescription drug coverage, reimbursement and pricing specifically, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures will continue to advocate change to the healthcare system generally and to prescription drug coverage, reimbursement and pricing specifically. At the federal level, the American Rescue Plan Act eliminated the cap on Medicaid Drug Rebate Program rebates beginning January 1, 2024. As such, we could end up owing additional rebates to state Medicaid programs related to utilization of our drug products negatively impacting profitability. States continue to look for ways to save on Medicaid spend specifically related to prescription drugs. As such, states are increasingly expanding or change supplemental rebates programs to secure additional rebates from manufacturers in exchange for drug coverage and to limit coverage of certain drugs for certain Medicaid patients or to all Medicaid patients. To the extent the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services entertains waivers to federal requirements under the Medicaid program to allow states Medicaid programs such flexibility, coverage of and payment for our drugs utilized by Medicaid beneficiaries could be negatively impacted. Passage of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)has brought sweeping change to Medicare coverage of and reimbursement for prescription drugs. Most notably, CMS is able to directly negotiate the reimbursement for certain prescription drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part D or B to be effective for the 2026 plan year. If a manufacturers drug is selected for negotiation, the manufacturer must negotiate a Maximum Fair Price with CMS or be liable for an excise tax of 65% to 95% of Medicare utilization based on the prior year. While no ANI drugs have currently been selected for negotiation, ANI continues to evaluate the implications of direct negotiation on its products in the future and potential repercussions of competitive products being selected for direct negotiation. In addition, as previously noted, there are numerous legal challenges to the direct negotiation provisions of the IRA. If any of those challenges are successful, this could change the current competitive landscape for manufacturers generally and may change the dynamics of the Medicare Part D marketplace potentially resulting in increased premiums, fewer Part D plans and sponsors and increased pressure on manufacturers to offer formulary placement rebates and additional price concessions. In addition, under the IRA the Part D benefit design with be altered and the coverage gap discount program replaced by a new manufacturer discount programpursuant to which manufacturers will provide a 10 percent discount off the negotiated price for applicable drugs (branded drugs and biologics manufactured by companies that have Part D discount agreements) after the deductible is satisfied through the catastrophic phase of the benefit. In the catastrophic phase, manufacturers will provide a 20 percent discount off negotiated price. Any pharmaceutical product marketed under an NDA, regardless of whether the product is marketed as a generic, is subject to the manufacturer discount requirement. This could increase discounts due on Medicare Part D utilization of our drug products.Lastly, the IRA imposed additional rebates on manufacturers including ANI to the extent certain drug pricing metrics are rising faster than inflation. These new inflation rebates are similar to those imposed on manufacturers under Medicaid and could result in additional rebates due from us on Medicare utilization of our products. Certain U.S. states have implemented statutes aimed at prescription drug price transparency and some of those laws would permit state run boards or agencies to cap reimbursement for certain prescription drugs in the states. Such laws could negatively impact our financial performance and could result in us terminating distribution of certain products in certain states or regions. 48 Table of Contents Inflation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Inflationary pressures are currently being experienced and may continue to exist in the U.S. and key worldwide markets. The rate of inflation may significantly increase input costs for our products and, given the competitive nature of the markets in which we compete, including branded, generic, and rare disease pharmaceutical, and may not be able to pass those costs on to our customers. Risks Related to Accounting, Tax, and SEC Rules and Regulations We have increased exposure to tax liabilities, including foreign tax liabilities. We are subject to, or potentially subject to, income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in various U.S. jurisdictions, Canada, India, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Portugal, and Germany. Significant judgment is required in determining our international provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations, which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements between our U.S. operations and our Indian subsidiary in relation to various aspects of our business, including research and development services, tech transfers, and contract manufacturing. Tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with, and subsequently challenge, the amount of profits taxed in such jurisdictions; such challenges may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Our operations in an international market subject us to additional regulatory oversight both in the international market and in the U.S., as well as, social, and political uncertainties, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We are subject to certain risks associated with having assets and operations located in foreign jurisdictions. Our international operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, and increased government regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Additionally, involvement in a war or other military action or international acts of terrorism may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in (i) delays or cancellations of customer orders, (ii) a general decrease in consumer spending on healthcare technology, (iii) our inability to effectively market and distribute our products internationally (iv) our inability to timely engage with and collect payment from our customers or (v) our inability to access capital markets, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in response to the continued conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the United States has imposed and may further impose, and other countries may additionally impose, broad sanctions or other restrictive actions against governmental and other entities in Russia. Additionally, further escalation of geopolitical tensions, such as the conflict in the middle east and the surrounding areas, and conflicts related to the attacks on cargo ships in the Red Sea, could have a broader impact that extends into other markets where we do business. We are unable to predict whether acts of international terrorism or the involvement in a war or other military actions by the United States and/or the countries in which we sell or distribute our products will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such involvement or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our expanded international operations from the Alimera Merger increased our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we devote substantial resources to our compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors or agents may violate our policies and with the acquisition of Alimera, our expanded international operations would significantly increase our exposure to potential liability. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade production laws, policies, and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. 49 Table of Contents We are also subject to tax regulations in certain foreign locations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by changes to such tax regulations or changing interpretation of such tax regulations. The international nature of our operations (including the acquisition of Alimera) will subject us to political and economic risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The risks presented by international operations include: limitations on ownership or participation in local enterprises; price controls, exchange controls, and limitations on repatriation of earnings; transportation delays and interruptions; the application of additional legal, regulatory and taxation regimes to our operations; political, social, and economic instability and disruptions in applicable regions, including as a result of war, such as the conflict between Russia and the Ukraine, the conflict between Israel and Gaza, and conflicts related to the attacks on cargo ships in the Red Sea; acts of terrorism; government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers; import and export controls; labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; fluctuations in foreign current exchange and interest rates; difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing the expansion of our business to the jurisdictions in which Novitium and Alimera operate, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable transfer pricing and similar regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We are subject to complex transfer pricing and other tax regulations in the United States and other foreign locations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned and are taxed in the appropriate taxing jurisdictions.Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and restrictions, we are subject to the risk that governmental authorities could audit our transfer pricing and related practices and assert that additional taxes are owed.In the event that such audits or assessments are concluded adversely against us, we may or may not be able to offset or mitigate the consolidated effect of any such assessments. Changes in estimates regarding the fair value of goodwill or intangible assets may result in an adverse impact to our business, financial position, and operating results. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill might not be recoverable. Judgment is used in determining when these events and circumstances arise. We perform our annual assessment of goodwill based on our two reporting units. If we determine that the carrying value of our assets may not be recoverable, we assess, using judgment and estimates, the fair value of our assets and to determine the amount of any impairment loss, if any. Changes in judgments and estimates may result in the recognition of an impairment loss, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. While our testing in fiscal 2024 did not result in an impairment charge related to goodwill, there can be no assurances that our goodwill will not be impaired in the future. Our material definite-lived intangible assets consist of ANDAs for previously marketed generic products, NDAs and product rights for our branded products, product rights related to certain generic products, and a non-compete agreement. These assets are being amortized over their useful lives of seven to twelve years. For these definite-lived intangible assets, we perform an impairment analysis when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on our impairment analysis, the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. An impairment charge could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. We recorded impairment losses of $7.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2024. 50 Table of Contents Our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, investors could lose confidence in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business, financial position, and operating results. As a public company, we are required to comply with significant legal, accounting, and other requirements, and as a result, we incur significant regulatory compliance-related expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including those related to corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Some members of management do not have significant experience in addressing these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs relative to those of previous years and make some activities more time consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure