Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, objective, ongoing, plan, predict, project, potential, should, will, or would, or the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology intended to identify statements about the future. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to effectively manage or sustain our growth and to achieve profitability; our market opportunity and the expansion of our core software markets in general; the effects of increased competition as well as innovations by new and existing competitors in our market; our ability to adapt to technological change and effectively enhance, innovate and scale our platform and professional services; our expected use of proceeds; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel and further expand our overall headcount; our ability to maintain, or strengthen awareness of, our brand; perceived or actual problems with the integrity, reliability, quality or compatibility of our platform, including unscheduled downtime or outages; potential acquisitions and integration of complementary businesses and technologies; future revenue, hiring plans, expenses, capital expenditures, capital requirements and stock performance; our ability to stay abreast of new or modified laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; and the future trading prices of our Class A common stock and the impact of securities analysts reports on these prices. These statements represent the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. 1 Item 1. Business. Overview Appian provides a leading low-code software development platform as a service that enables organizations to rapidly develop powerful and unique applications. The applications created on our platform help companies drive digital transformation and competitive differentiation. With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface with little or no coding required. Our customers have used applications built on our low-code platform to launch new business lines, automate vital employee workflows, manage complex trading platforms, accelerate drug development and build global procurement systems. With our platform, decision makers can reimagine their products, services, processes and customer interactions by removing much of the complexity and many of the challenges associated with traditional approaches to software development. Organizations across industries are digitally transformingleveraging software to automate and optimize mission critical operations, enhance customer experiences and drive competitive differentiation. Historically, organizations have principally relied on packaged software and custom software solutions to operationalize and automate their businesses. Packaged software often fails to address unusual use cases or to enable differentiation and requires organizations to conform their individual processes, needs and systems of record to standardized frameworks. While traditional custom software solutions can be differentiated and tailored to meet strategic objectives, development requires a long, iterative and cumbersome process, as well as costly integration, and relies on scarce developer talent. We enable organizations to differentiate themselves from their competition through software-enabled digital transformation. Our low-code platform employs an intuitive, visual interface and pre-built development modules that reduce the time required to build powerful and unique applications. We believe that developing applications on our platform can be as simple as drawing a picture. Our platform automates the creation of forms, data flows, records, reports and other software elements that would otherwise need to be manually coded or configured. This functionality greatly reduces the iterative development process, allowing for real-time application optimization and ultimately shortening the time from idea to deployment. Further, our patented Self-Assembling Interface Layer, or SAIL, technology ensures that applications developed on our platform can be immediately and natively deployed across a full range of mobile and desktop devices with no additional customization, including desktop web browsers, tablets and mobile phones. Updates to applications developed with SAIL disseminate automatically across device types to ensure that all users benefit from the most up-to-date functionality. At the same time, we unify enterprise data in a single searchable environment, providing organizations with a comprehensive view of customer, product, organizational asset and other critical information. Rich reporting dashboards capture detailed performance metrics, providing valuable business intelligence and analytics that enable business process optimization. Moreover, our platform can be deployed in the cloud, on-premises or using a hybrid approach, with organizations able to access the same functionality and data sources in all cases. Our go-to-market strategy consists of both direct sales and, to a lesser extent, sales through strategic partners. We sell our software almost exclusively through subscriptions and intend to grow our revenue both by adding new customers and increasing the number of users at existing customers that use applications developed on our platform. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 356 customers in a wide variety of industries, of which 285 customers were commercial and 71 customers were government or non-commercial entities. Our customers include financial services, healthcare, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation organizations. As of December 31, 2017 , 29% of our commercial customers were Global 2000 organizations and included 44 Fortune 500 companies. We determined relevant global financial services and healthcare companies by referencing certain independent industry data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. Customers receive all of the modules and functionality of our platform with their initial subscription, which facilitates the seamless creation of new applications. Many of our customers begin by building a single application and grow to build dozens of applications on our platform, which implicitly reduces the per-user cost of each application. Generally, the development of new applications results in the expansion of our user base within an organization and a corresponding increase in revenue to us because we charge subscription fees on a per-user basis for the significant majority of our customer contracts. Every additional application that an organization creates on our platform increases the value of our platform for that organization because it further integrates people, process and data across the organization and facilitates knowledge sharing. At the same time, our industry-leading professional services organization enables our customers to more easily build and deploy applications on our platform to achieve their digital transformation goals. We believe that we have a significant market opportunity in helping organizations accelerate their digital transformation by leveraging our low-code software development platform. Our current core software markets, which include the markets for low-code development platforms, case management software, business process management and platform-as-a- 2 service, are expected to represent a combined $23.6 billion market opportunity by 2018 and a combined $44.4 billion market opportunity in the near term. In addition to our current core software markets, we believe that our platform better meets certain of the needs that have been historically addressed by manually-developed custom enterprise software, which is expected to represent a $169 billion market in 2018. Further, based on the total number of global companies and government institutions in 2017 in relevant industries and our industry-specific average annual recurring revenue for customers as of December 31, 2017 , we internally estimate our market opportunity to have been approximately $31 billion in 2017. See "Our Opportunity" for additional information. We have experienced strong revenue growth, with revenue of $176.7 million , $132.9 million and $111.2 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Our subscription revenue was $82.8 million , $60.0 million and $41.5 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing year-over-year growth rates of 38% from 2016 to 2017 and 45% from 2015 to 2016 . Our professional services revenue was $85.2 million , $63.0 million and $58.0 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect the mix of total revenue to shift more toward subscription revenue. We have invested in developing our platform, expanding our sales and marketing and research and development capabilities, and providing general and administrative resources to support our growth. As a result, we incurred net losses of $31.0 million , $12.5 million and $7.0 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We also had operating cash flows of $(9.1) million , $(7.8) million and $(2.1) million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Recent Developments In November 2017, we completed a secondary offering pursuant to which stockholders sold an aggregate of 4,370,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $20.25 per share, including 570,000 shares pursuant to the underwriters' option to purchase additional Class A shares. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of our Class A common stock offered in the secondary offering. Industry and Market Data Information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K concerning our industry and the market in which we operate, including our general expectations and market position, market opportunity and market size is based on information from various sources, including independent industry publications by Forrester Research Inc., or Forrester, Aite Group, LLC, or Aite, International Data Corporation, or IDC, Gartner, Inc., or Gartner, and S&P Global Market Intelligence. In presenting this information, we have also made assumptions based on such data and other similar sources, and on our knowledge of, and in our experience to date in, the markets for our services. This information involves a number of assumptions and limitations, and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to such estimates. Although we have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of any third-party information, we believe the market position, market opportunity and market size information included in this Annual Report is reliable. The industry in which we operate is subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in the Risk Factors section. These and other factors could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates made by the independent parties and by us. The Forrester studies described herein, one of which was commissioned by us, represent data, research, opinions or viewpoints prepared by Forrester and are not representations of fact. We have been advised by Forrester that its studies speak as of their original date (and not as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and any opinions expressed in the studies are subject to change without notice. The Gartner report described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represents data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner and are not representations of fact. The Gartner report speaks as of its original publication date, and not as of the date of this Annual Report, and the opinions expressed in the Gartner report are subject to change without notice. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The S&P Global Market Intelligence data described herein represents proprietary data gathered by S&P Global Market Intelligence and is not a representation of fact. The S&P Global Market Intelligence data is as of February 2, 2017 (and not as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and is subject to change without notice. 3 Industry Background Software-enabled digital transformation. Organizations across industries are digitally transformingleveraging software to automate and optimize mission critical operations, enhance customer experiences and drive competitive differentiation. Software has revolutionized mass transportation, drug development, business-customer interactions and operational management. Software has evolved from being a method for modernization to an opportunity for differentiation. Several key trends are fueling software-enabled digital transformation, including the rise of cloud computing and the Internet of Things and the proliferation of mobile devices. Decision makers are increasingly recognizing the need to capitalize on these trends, as 87% of Global 2000 executives planned digital transformation projects for 2017 and 47% of Global 2000 executives cited digital transformation as their highest corporate priority in 2017, according to a survey conducted by LTM Research, an industry research firm, which was commissioned by us. Challenges to effective digital transformation. Historically, organizations have principally relied on packaged software and custom software solutions to operationalize and automate their businesses. However, these solutions are challenged in their ability to facilitate effective software-enabled digital transformation. More specifically: Packaged software is inadequate. Packaged software, whether delivered in the cloud or on-premises, is a one-size-fits-all solution that performs industry-agnostic functions, such as customer relationship management or enterprise resource management, or serves specific industry verticals without organization-specific differentiation. Organizations are often unable to use packaged software to address unusual use cases and differentiate themselves and must conform their individual processes, needs and systems of record to standardized frameworks. Moreover, for both cross-industry and industry-specific software, the limited scope of functionality often forces organizations to adopt numerous point solutions that can be difficult to integrate. Traditional custom software solutions are expensive and difficult to create. In contrast, traditional custom solutions are built to address particular organization-specific use cases. Although this allows organizations to better manage their operations and differentiate their businesses, traditional custom software solutions have historically been hampered by several limitations: Traditional application development is a long and cumbersome process, requiring complex coding and an iterative feedback cycle. According to one example cited by Forrester, the coding of custom software took an estimated 2.7 years to complete, and therefore the output from a development project may not meet user needs and intentions even on the first day of deployment. In the same report, Forrester found that the use of low-code software development was six to 20 times faster than traditional software development. Further, traditional custom software projects require on-going maintenance and enhancement, without which the resulting software will not keep pace with future needs. The proliferation in mobile devices and the competition among mobile device manufacturers means that device operating systems are continuously being updated, modified and customized for specific hardware configurations. This continual change means that traditional custom software needs to be updated continuously in order to remain relevant across an organizations entire technology environment. Updating such custom software so that it can be used across devices adds another layer of complexity to the entire process. The need for organizations to manage their operations utilizing all of these devices and environments necessitates costly integrations in an attempt to avoid creating information silos. Otherwise, organizations could not effectively share information across applications and processes, which would inhibit collaboration, effective analytics and real-time decision making. Developer talent is scarce and hiring developers to create custom software is costly. According to an LTM Research survey of Global 2000 executives, which was commissioned by us, 79% of respondents said they were concerned that their digital transformation initiatives would be impacted by challenges in hiring and retaining skilled developers. Software developer costs can be greater than $100,000 per year, depending on location. Given its labor intensive nature, traditional custom software can be very expensive to design, implement and maintain. Low-code software development platforms have emerged to address the limitations associated with packaged software and traditional custom software solutions. These low-code solutions seek to enable both professional software developers and business users to rapidly build organization-specific applications. However, many existing low-code platforms are either limited in functionality such that they do not support the development of enterprise-grade applications or continue to require significant manual coding, and therefore are not truly low-code. 4 Benefits of Our Platform We enable organizations to differentiate themselves from their competition through software-enabled digital transformation. With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface, with little or no coding required. Our patented SAIL technology ensures that applications developed on our platform can be immediately and natively deployed across a full range of mobile and desktop devices with no additional customization, including desktop web browsers, tablets and mobile phones. We also enable organizations to easily modify and enhance applications and automatically disseminate these updates across device types to ensure that all users benefit from the most up-to-date functionality. Key benefits of our platform include: Rapid and simple innovation through our powerful platform. Our low-code platform employs an intuitive, visual interface and pre-built development modules that reduce the time required to build powerful and unique applications. Our platform automates the creation of forms, data flows, records, reports and other software elements that would otherwise need to be manually coded or configured. This functionality greatly reduces the iterative development process, allowing for real-time application optimization and ultimately shortening the time from idea to deployment. In turn, organizations can better leverage scarce and costly developer talent to accomplish more digital transformation objectives. Powerful applications to solve complex challenges . At the core of our platform is an advanced engine that enables the modeling, modification and management of complex processes and business rules. Our heritage as a business process management, or BPM, company provides us with this differentiated understanding of complex processes, and we have incorporated that expertise into our platform to enable the development of powerful applications. Organizations have used our platform to launch new business lines, build large procurement systems, manage retail store layouts, conduct predictive maintenance on field equipment and manage trading platforms, among a range of other use cases. For example, the Defense Information Systems Agency of the U.S. federal government, or DISA, utilizes our platform to manage its large and complex procurement organization, having processed nearly $3.5 billion worth of contract value on our platform since 2009. Create once, deploy everywhere. Our patented SAIL technology allows developers to create an application once and deploy it everywhere with the consistency of experience and optimal performance levels that users expect. Applications developed on our platform can be immediately and natively deployed across a full range of mobile and desktop devices with no additional customization, including desktop web browsers, tablets and mobile phones. Seamless integration with existing systems and data. In contrast to typical enterprise software, our platform does not require that data reside within it in order to enable robust data analysis and cross-department and cross-application insight. Our platform seamlessly integrates with many of the most popular enterprise software applications and data repositories and can be used within many legacy environments. For example, organizations frequently use our platform to extend the life and enhance the functionality of legacy systems of record, such as those used for enterprise resource planning, human capital management and customer relationship management, by building new applications that enhance the functionality of those systems and by leveraging the data within those systems to further optimize and automate operations. Deployment flexibility to serve customer needs. Our platform can be installed in the cloud, on-premises or using a hybrid approach, with organizations able to access the same functionality and data sources in all cases. Our flexible deployment model also preserves a seamless path to future cloud deployments for organizations initially choosing on-premises or hybrid approaches for their most sensitive workloads. Industry-leading security. Our platform is designed to meet the highest demands of our federal government and large enterprise customers. Our cloud platform holds some of the highest security certifications from government agencies and industry organizations, including being one of the first low-code software companies to achieve Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program, or FedRAMP, compliance. Our platform also meets the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, and the United States Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act standard. Our approach to digital transformation goes beyond simply enabling organizations to build custom applications fast. We empower decision makers to reimagine their products, services, processes and customer interactions with software by removing much of the complexity and many of the challenges associated with traditional approaches to software development. Because we make application development easy, organizations can build specific and competitively differentiated functionality into applications to deliver enhanced user experiences and streamlined business operations. 5 Our Growth Strategy Key elements of our growth strategy include: Expand our customer base. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 356 customers in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation. We believe that the market for our software development platform is in its early stages and that we have a significant opportunity to add additional large enterprise and government customers. Grow through our differentiated land and expand model. Customers receive all of the modules and functionality of our platform with their initial subscription, which facilitates the seamless creation of new applications. Many of our customers begin by building a single application and grow to build dozens of applications on our platform, which implicitly reduces the per-user cost of each application. Generally, the development of new applications results in the expansion of our user base within an organization and a corresponding increase in revenue to us because we usually charge subscription fees on a per-user basis. Every additional application that an organization creates on our platform increases the value of our platform for that organization because it further integrates people, process and data across the organization and facilitates knowledge sharing. Applications built on our platform may be used only on our platform while customers have active subscriptions, creating substantial switching costs for customers to move to a different software platform. We believe that organizations will develop additional applications and add users to our platform as they continue to recognize these benefits. Grow revenue from key industry verticals. While our platform is industry-agnostic, we have recently made, and plan to continue to make, investments to enhance the expertise of our sales and marketing organization within our key industry verticals of financial services, healthcare and U.S. federal government. In 2017 , we generated over 66% of our subscription revenue from customers in these verticals. We believe that focusing on the digital transformation needs of organizations within these industry verticals can help drive adoption of our platform. Continue to innovate and enhance our platform . We have made, and will continue to make, investments in research and development to strengthen our platform and expand the number of features available to our customers. We typically offer multiple upgrades each year that allow our customers to benefit from ongoing innovation. Most recently, we expanded our offering to include Quick Apps, which enables non-professional developers to develop native web and mobile applications in minutes with no coding. In addition, our platform allows our customers to embed artificial intelligence, or AI, concepts into their business processes and to use our pre-built integrations to leading providers of AI services. Our platform also incorporates best practices in the field of data science into a tool for our customers to automate the training, deployment and management of AI predictive models. We are also collaborating with other companies to include cognitive computing and Robotic Process Automation capabilities on our platform, allowing the delivery of even more powerful and intelligent applications using an agile delivery capability. As we continue to increase the functionality of our platform and further reduce the amount of developer skill that is required to build robust applications on our platform, we believe that we have the potential to expand the use of our platform. Expand our international footprint. Our platform is designed to be natively multi-lingual to facilitate collaboration and address challenges in multi-national organizations. In 2017 , approximately 27% of our total revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. Today, we operate in 11 countries and believe that we have a significant opportunity to grow our international footprint. We are investing in new geographies, including through investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services and customer support and implementation partners. Grow our partner base. We have several strategic partnerships including with Deloitte, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. These partners work with organizations that are undergoing digital transformation projects and are therefore able to refer potential customers to us. When these partners recognize an opportunity for our platform, they often introduce us to potential customers. We intend to further grow our base of partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. Our Opportunity We believe that we have a significant market opportunity in helping organizations accelerate their digital transformation by leveraging our low-code software development platform. Current core software markets. We believe that our platform addresses several key core software markets, as follows: Low-code. According to Forrester, the market for low-code development platforms is expected to total $4.4 billion in 2018 and is expected to grow at a 49% compound annual growth rate to $21.2 billion in 2022. We were included as a Leader in the Forrester Wave: Low-Code Development Platforms in 2017, which is an evaluation of current offering, strategy and market presence. 6 Case management . Case management applications are designed to support complex processes that require a combination of human workflows and collaboration, electronic workflows, data management and processing of files and cases. According to Aite, the market for case management software was expected to total $1.3 billion in 2017 and is expected to grow at a 9% compound annual growth rate to $1.6 billion in 2019. We were included as a Leader based on the strength of our current offering, our strategy and our market presence in the Forrester Wave: Dynamic Case Management in 2016. BPM . BPM applications are designed to support the optimization of business processes, including process identification, improvement implementation, and monitoring and analysis. According to Gartner, the market for Business Process Management Suites is expected to total $3.0 billion in 2018 and is expected to grow at a 7% compound annual growth rate to $3.7 billion in 2021 worldwide*. We were included as a "Leader" based on our ability to execute and the completeness of our vision in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Intelligent Business Process Management Suites 2017.** Application PaaS . Application platform as a service, or application PaaS, is a cloud service that provides the necessary infrastructure to enable the development, deployment and hosting of software applications. We believe that we are well positioned to capture a portion of the application platform-as-a-service, or application PaaS, market, which IDC estimated to reach $14.9 billion in 2018, and which is expected to grow at a 6% compound annual growth rate to $17.9 billion in 2021. Taken together, these current core software markets were expected to represent a combined $23.6 billion market opportunity by 2018 and a combined $44.4 billion market opportunity in the near term. Traditional custom enterprise software market . In addition to our current core software markets, we believe that our platform better meets certain of the needs that have been historically addressed by manually-developed custom enterprise software, which is expected to represent a $169 billion market in 2018, according to Forrester. Our internal estimate . Based on approximately 140,000 global companies and government institutions in 2017 in relevant industries and revenue-based size segments, and our industry- and size-specific average annual recurring revenue for customers as of December 31, 2017 , we internally estimate our market opportunity to have been approximately $31 billion in 2017. We determined relevant global companies and government institutions by industry and size by referencing certain independent industry data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. We calculated industry- and size-specific average annual recurring revenue as of December 31, 2017 by adding the aggregate annual recurring revenue from all existing customers within each industry and size segment and dividing the total by the number of our existing customers in each industry and size segment. Our Platform With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface, with little or no coding required. We also enable organizations to easily modify and enhance applications and automatically disseminate these updates across device types to ensure that all users benefit from the most up-to-date functionality. Through the speed and power of our platform, organizations can make their digital transformations happen more effectively and efficiently than could be achieved through building an application with Java or other standard programming languages. We believe that developing applications can be as simple as drawing a picture. Sources: **Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Intelligent Business Process Management Suites, Rob Dunie et al, 24 October 2017 and *Gartner, Forecast: Enterprise Software Markets, Worldwide, 2014-2014, 4Q17 Update, Hai Hong Swinehart et al, 15 December 2017. 7 At the core of our platform is an advanced engine that enables the modeling, modification and management of complex processes and business rules. Our heritage as a BPM company provides us with this differentiated understanding of complex processes, and we have incorporated that expertise into our platform to enable the development of powerful applications. The following graphic shows our architecture: We believe that the key elements of our technology infrastructure are as follows: Web-Based Development Environment The Appian design interface is a model-driven, web-based development environment for application creation, testing, deployment and performance optimization. Appian design is a shared repository of all Appian componentsinterfaces, process models, APIs, new component builders and user collaboration modulesand administration utilities for managing people, processes and data. The Appian design repository incorporates best practices and years of lessons learned from digital transformation initiatives. Common development operations tasks require just a few clicks and can be automated for hands-off deployment. Dramatic improvements in developer productivity can be achieved through user-friendly capabilities such as fast impact analysis of all changes; auto-updating applications and components when data types change; and live views of interfaces under development. Appian design guides developers through the necessary steps to create the foundation elements of reusable interfaces, records and business processes, while providing all the power that developers need to design, build and implement enterprise systems at scale. The following graphic shows our process modeler. 8 Organizations have used our platform to launch new business lines, build large procurement systems, manage retail store layouts, conduct predictive maintenance on field equipment and manage trading platforms, among a range of other use cases. For example, the Defense Information Systems Agency utilizes our platform to manage its large and complex procurement organization, having processed over 150,000 contract negotiation correspondences and nearly $3.5 billion worth of contract value on our platform since 2009. Our Patented SAIL Technology SAIL is our patented technology that allows developers to create dynamic and responsive web and native-mobile user interfaces through a create once, deploy everywhere architecture. SAIL interfaces only need to be created once and SAIL automatically assembles customer applications for optimal viewing on each device type, including desktop web browsers, tablets and mobile phones, and each device operating system, including iOS and different permutations of Android. SAIL leverages native functionality inherent across a myriad of devices and operating systems to ensure the consistency of experience and optimal performance levels that users expect. Updates to applications developed with SAIL are automatically disseminated across device types to ensure that all users benefit from the most up-to-date functionality. This approach enables enterprise mobility without the extensive time and resources that other development approaches require. The following graphic shows how our end-user interface appears across different devices. 9 We believe that SAIL provides a significant advantage over other platforms that both require extensive customization for various devices at the time of the creation of the new applications and on an on-going basis as mobile device manufacturers continue to update their software and capabilities. Further, in regulated industries, each traditional custom software application must generally undergo its own security assessment and accreditation process, while applications created with SAIL are designed to be compliant with stringent security and numerous rigorous regulatory requirements. Unified Data Appian Records is an advanced data management technology that allows end users to discover and unite enterprise data into a single searchable environment, providing a comprehensive view of an organizations data. In contrast to typical enterprise software, our platform does not require that data reside within it in order to enable robust data analysis and cross-department and cross-application insight. Using standard database software and service connection frameworks, including APIs, our platform seamlessly integrates with many of the most popular enterprise software applications and data repositories and can be used within many legacy environments. Users simply need to assign a name to a given topic and then decide which existing data sources within the enterprise they want to capture. Users can categorize important information by business topic, not just by where that information resides, thereby allowing organizations to unify their data and their processes and effectively access information buried in existing systems. For example, a Record for Customer A might bring together data from customer relationship management, accounting and customer support systems to give users a complete view of the customer in their organization. In addition to the benefits of having an immediate snapshot of all centralized data relating to the customer, product, employee or service request. Records also allows organizations to analyze the end-to-end journeys of any given person, entity or asset. Once the connections are established, users may navigate, analyze, collaborate and take action on data from our intuitive dashboards and interactive reports. Unified End User Interfaces Our end user interfaces enable end users to discover data, collaborate with other end users and participate in process actions. The end user experience begins with a news feed that allows end users to monitor key events from processes, systems and other end users, providing a unified view of all applications and activity in one place. End users can collaborate with others, obtain status updates, send direct and secure messages and create social tasks for other end users. Our activity stream is designed to be intuitive for end users familiar with popular consumer social interfaces, allowing them to instantly track important events and occurrences and collaborate with little to no training. We also enforce company security policies, so end users can confidently collaborate without fear of compromising regulatory compliance. Our end user interfaces solve the problem of information silos, allowing organizations to respond to constituent feedback in real time by uniting the right team with the right information. At the same time, our platform provides transparency, visibility and control across all of our applications through a dynamic and powerfully flexible tasking environment. We provide detailed tracking of all human process tasks on our platform, including when tasks have been assigned, addressed and completed by any user. Business Activity Monitoring reports display real-time enterprise performance, bottleneck detection and process optimization while scaling to millions of tasks. Deployment Flexibility In the Cloud or On-Premises Our platform can be deployed in the cloud, on-premises or using a hybrid approach, with organizations able to access the same functionality and data sources in all cases. Our flexible deployment model also enables organizations not yet ready to move their most sensitive workloads to the cloud to deploy our platform in an on-premises or hybrid manner while preserving a path to potential future cloud deployments. Technology We designed our platform to support large global enterprises and government organizations at scale, in the cloud, on-premises and through a hybrid or private cloud approach. We designed, deploy and manage our platform with the goal of it being a joy to use for both developers and users of applications. Our customers build powerful and unique applications using our proprietary and patented SAIL technology, which we also use ourselves to develop features of our platform. We also employ cutting-edge React technology for building web and mobile user interfaces. We use third-party proprietary database and database language technology licensed from Kx Systems, Inc., or Kx, to power the high-performance in-memory database of our platform. Under our agreement with Kx, we are permitted to distribute Kxs software as a component part of our software platform as well as to host Kxs software on behalf of our customers through our cloud offering. Our agreement requires Kx to provide maintenance directly to us on the software we license as long as it provides maintenance to any other customers. We pay a variable license fee based on the number of applications built by our customers, subject to an overall cap on payment. We have paid Kx the overall license fee cap in each 10 of the last five years. We may maintain the contract as long as we pay maintenance fees. Kx may terminate the agreement if we materially breach the agreement, become insolvent, make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if a bankruptcy proceeding is initiated against us. Unless we fail to pay amounts due under the contract or violate certain of Kxs intellectual property rights, Kx may not terminate the agreement until either it has successfully litigated a breach action or six months, whichever is earlier. Our cloud offering is hosted by Amazon Web Services and is available in more than 33 availability zones in eight countries. Data in our cloud offering is written simultaneously to multiple availability zones to protect against loss of customer data. Our software also is able to run in the Microsoft Azure cloud as of the third quarter of 2017. Our enablement of the Microsoft Azure cloud is consistent with our principle of platform neutrality. Our platform can be deployed in the cloud, on-premises or using a hybrid approach, with organizations able to access the same functionality and data sources in all cases. Further, customers choosing to install our platform on-premises or using a hybrid approach can do so in a flexible manner. We have also implemented a wide set of technical, physical and personnel-based security controls designed to protect against the compromise of confidential data that belongs to both our customers and us. Professional Services Since inception, we have invested in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers are able to deploy and adopt our platform. More recently, we have expanded our professional services partner network to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as efforts by partners to build their practices around Appian, will drive increased adoption of our platform. When we first acquire a new customer, our professional services experts or our deployment partners professional services experts start the implementation process, which typically takes several weeks. Delivery specialists facilitate deployment of our platform and training personnel provide comprehensive support throughout the implementation process. Customers have access to our Appian Academy, which caters to a diverse range of skill sets and roles within organizations and trains developers on our platform. We also provide instructor-led courses at our Reston, Virginia headquarters and certain of our other offices, as well as virtual classrooms for self-paced learning and on-site training at our customers offices. Once our customers have deployed and implemented our platform, our Appian Architects review our customers programs and applications to find potential issues and provide recommendations on best practice. Our professional services team also assists customers by building applications on our platform for them. Over time, we expect professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on strategic partners to help our customers deploy our software. Customer Support Our customer support personnel are trained engineers and designers who can work with customers on the front lines to address support issues. We provide email and phone support, with teams in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. Developers can also find answers to their questions on the Appian Forum, a community site that provides online customer support; real-time collaboration and networking; a growing knowledge base of answers for common questions; and live product webinars and training. The Appian Forum also includes documentation, methodologies and reusable components for our platform. We have consistently been able to achieve at least a 98% customer satisfaction rating for our customer support organization, based on our surveys. Our Customers Our customers operate in a variety of industries, including financial services, government, education, technology, media and telecom, consumer, healthcare and industrials. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 356 customers in a wide variety of industries, of which 285 customers were commercial and 71 customers were government or non-commercial entities. Our customers include financial services, healthcare, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation organizations. Our number of customers paying us in excess of $1 million of annual recurring revenue has grown from 19 at the end of 2016 to 24 at the end of 2017. As of December 31, 2017 , 29% of our commercial customers were Global 2000 organizations and included 44 Fortune 500 companies. Generally, our sales force targets its efforts to organizations with over 2,000 employees and $2 billion in annual revenue. No single end-customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . Some of our representative customers by sector include the following: 11 Culture and Employees We believe that fostering our distinct culture of innovation is an important contributor to our success as a company. When we started Appian, we used to debate about everything. It was second nature since half the founding team had been competitive debaters in college. Debate proved to be a great way to reach the best decisions. Bad ideas couldnt survive; good ideas got better. We encourage everyone to speak up, but we also delegate every decision to a single person. So we can disagree, and we still reach firm resolutions. We strive to hire the most talented individuals, from top universities and from industry, with an eye towards intelligence, passion and personal generosity. We place those individuals within small, agile teams to maximize their autonomy, creativity and collaboration. That may be why weve been named a top workplace by The Washington Post for four years running. We started the business as a bootstrap, in the midst of a venture capital boom. We did it because we believe in self-reliance. Paying for our own expenses has made us stronger. A commitment to financial self-sufficiency is woven into our DNA. Appian is an open, transparent, and data-rich environment because we run Appian on Appian software. We have approximately 100 applications internal to Appian that run on Appian including everything from cloud operations to pipeline management to free-food alerts. As our own best customer, we get to know our platform deeply, and we can improve it faster. Our culture was purposefully created by our four founders, who are still heavily involved in operating the business, including recruiting, interviewing and educating all new employees at Appian. Our founders, led by Matt Calkins, our Chief Executive Officer, have intentionally grown our business organically, focusing on developing a single solutionthe Appian platform. We do so employing a unified development team located in a single office in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area to maximize the cohesion and simplicity of our platform and our company. When a client buys Appian software, they get a piece of Appian culture along with it. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 705 full-time employees in the United States and 154 full-time employees internationally. During 2017 , we had a voluntary attrition rate of 11% among all employees of our company. We believe that this low voluntary attrition rate is a testament to our company culture. None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are good and we have not experienced any work stoppages. 12 Our Competition Our main competitors fall into three categories: (1) providers of low-code development platforms, such as salesforce.com and ServiceNow; (2) providers of business process management and case management software, such as IBM, OpenText, Oracle, Pegasystems and SAP; and (3) providers of custom software and customer software solutions that address, or are developed to address, some of the use cases that can be addressed by applications developed on our platform. As our market grows, we expect that it will attract more highly specialized vendors as well as larger vendors that may continue to acquire or bundle their products more effectively. The principal competitive factors in our market include: platform features, reliability, performance and effectiveness; ease of use and speed; platform extensibility and ability to integrate with other technology infrastructures; deployment flexibility; robustness of professional services and customer support; price and total cost of ownership; strength of platform security and adherence to industry standards and certifications; strength of sales and marketing efforts; and brand awareness and reputation. We believe we generally compete favorably with our competitors with respect to the features and performance of our platform, the ease of integration of our applications and the relatively low total cost of ownership of our applications. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, greater name recognition, larger sales and marketing budgets, broader distribution, more diversified product lines and larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios. Backlog Backlog represents future amounts to be invoiced and recognized under subscription agreements. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , we had backlog of approximately $214 million and $167 million , respectively. Approximately 58% of our backlog as of December 31, 2017 is not expected to be filled in 2018. We expect that the amount of backlog relative to the total value of our contracts will change from quarter to quarter and year to year for several reasons, including the specific timing and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, changes in customer financial circumstances and foreign currency fluctuations. We often sign multiple-year subscription agreements, the length in years of which may vary widely. Backlog may vary based on changes in the average non-cancellable term of subscription agreements. The change in backlog that results from changes in the average non-cancellable term of subscription agreements may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or expected future revenue. Accordingly, we believe that fluctuations in backlog are not a reliable indicator of future revenue, and we do not utilize backlog as a key management metric internally. Seasonality We have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the fourth quarter and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter. The increase in customer agreements for the fourth quarter is attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. Furthermore, we usually enter into a significant portion of agreements with customers during the last month, and often the last two weeks, of each quarter. However, we recognize substantially all of our revenue ratably over the terms of our subscription agreements, which generally occurs over a one to five-year period. As a result, a substantial portion of the revenue that we report in each period will be derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new sales or renewals in any one period may not be immediately reflected in our revenue results for that period. This 13 decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform and potential changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas We consider our business activities to constitute a single segment. For information regarding our revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 12 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Marketing Sales Our sales organization is responsible for account acquisition and overall market development, which includes the management of the relationships with our customers. While our platform is industry-agnostic, we have recently made, and plan to continue to make, investments to enhance the expertise of our sales organization within our core industry verticals of financial services, healthcare and government. We also expect to continue to grow our sales headcount in all of our principal markets and expand our presence into countries where we currently do not have a direct sales presence. Marketing Our marketing efforts focus on building our brand reputation and increasing market awareness of our platform. Marketing activities include sponsorship of, and attendance at, trade shows and conferences; our annual Appian World event; social media and advertising programs; management of our corporate web site and partner portal; press outreach; and customer relations. Research and Development Our engineering department is responsible for design, development, testing and release of our platform. Our engineering team closely coordinates with our executive management, which is responsible for creating a vision for our platform, and with our professional services and sales teams, which relay customer demands and possible new use cases or enhancements. Our development efforts focus on the critical areas of our platform, including infrastructure, ease-of-use and flexibility, end-user experience and ability to integrate with other enterprise systems. Research and development expense totaled $34.8 million , $23.0 million and $16.8 million for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2017 , we had two issued patents relating to our SAIL technology and two patent applications pending in the United States relating to our platform. Both of our issued patents expire in 2034. We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or that the examination process will not require us to narrow our claims. Any patents that may issue may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We control access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, end-customers and partners, and our software is protected by U.S. and international copyright and trade secret laws. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses, and confidentiality agreements, unauthorized parties may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our software and technology. In addition, we intend to expand our international operations, and effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. 14 Facilities We have offices in four U.S. cities and 11 cities outside the United States. Our headquarters are located in Reston, Virginia. We believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our ongoing needs, and that, if we require additional space, we will be able to obtain additional facilities on commercially reasonable terms. Corporate Information Appian Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1999. Our principal executive offices are located at 11955 Democracy Drive, Suite 1700, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number is (703) 442-8844. We completed our initial public offering in May 2017 and our Class A common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "APPN". Appian, the Appian logo, and other trademarks or service marks of Appian Corporation appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Appian Corporation. This Annul Report on Form10-K contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of others, which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may appear without the or symbols. Available Information Our website address is www.appian.com . Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are made available free of charge on or through our website at investors.appian.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov , which contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public may read and copy any files with the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties including those described below. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or others not specified below materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our recent growth may not be indicative of our future growth and, if we continue to grow, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We have recently experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. In particular, we grew from 173 employees as of December 31, 2011 to 859 employees as of December 31, 2017 . We have also significantly increased the size of our customer base over the last several years. We anticipate that we will continue to significantly expand our operations and headcount in the near term. Our growth has placed, and any future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage our growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying our platform to customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties. Any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Our ability to forecast our future operating results is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. If our assumptions 15 regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our business could suffer and the trading price of our stock may decline. If we are unable to sustain our revenue growth rate, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have experienced revenue growth with revenue of $176.7 million , $132.9 million and $111.2 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Although we have experienced rapid revenue growth historically, we may not continue to grow as rapidly in the future and our revenue growth rates may decline. Any success that we may experience in the future will depend in large part on our ability to, among other things: maintain and expand our customer base; increase revenue from existing customers through increased or broader use of our platform within their organizations; further penetrate the existing industry verticals that we serve and expand into other industry verticals; improve the performance and capabilities of our platform through research and development; continue to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and successfully compete with other companies. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as any indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our customers growing needs, and if we are not able to grow efficiently, our operating results could be harmed. As usage of our platform grows and as customers use our platform for more advanced and more frequent projects, we may need to devote additional resources to improving our software architecture, integrating with third-party systems, and maintaining infrastructure performance. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business as well as grow our partner services systems, including our professional services organization and operations, to serve our growing customer base, particularly as our customer base expands over time. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could cause impaired system performance and reduced customer satisfaction. These issues could reduce the attractiveness of our platform to customers, resulting in decreased sales to new customers, lower renewal rates by existing customers, the issuance of service credits, or requested refunds, which could hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. Even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our staff, any such expansion will be expensive and complex, requiring management time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our infrastructure. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding our information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the expansion and improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all. These efforts may reduce revenue and our margins and adversely impact our financial results. We are dependent on a single solution, and the lack of continued market acceptance of our platform could cause our operating results to suffer. Sales of our Appian software platform account for substantially all of our subscription revenue and are the source of substantially all of our professional services revenue. We expect that we will be substantially dependent on our platform to generate revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our operating results could suffer due to: any decline in demand for our platform; the failure of our platform to achieve continued market acceptance; the market for low-code solutions not continuing to grow, or growing more slowly than we expect; the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our platform; technological innovations or new standards that our platform does not address; sensitivity to current or future prices offered by us or competing solutions; and our inability to release enhanced versions of our platform on a timely basis. 16 If the market for our platform grows more slowly than anticipated or if demand for our platform does not grow as quickly as anticipated, whether as a result of competition, pricing sensitivities, product obsolescence, technological change, unfavorable economic conditions, uncertain geopolitical environment, budgetary constraints of our customers or other factors, we may not be able to grow our revenue. If we are unable to further penetrate our existing industry verticals or expand our customer base, our revenue may not grow and our operating results may be harmed. Moreover, if we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties. Currently, a significant majority of our revenue is derived from companies in the financial services, pharmaceuticals, insurance and healthcare industries, and from the U.S. federal government. We are investing substantial resources to expand and train our sales force to enable it to better understand these industry verticals and drive sales to customers in these industry verticals, but there can be no assurance that these investments will be successful. Further, an important part of our strategy is to expand our customer base in a wide variety of industries. We have less experience in some industries and our expansion may require us to grow our expertise in certain areas and add sales and support personnel possessing familiarity with the relevant industries. There may be competitors in these verticals that may be entrenched and difficult to dislodge. As a result of these and other factors, our efforts to expand our customer base may be expensive and may not succeed, and we therefore may be unable to grow our revenue. If we fail to further penetrate our existing industry verticals or expand our customer base, we may be unable to grow our revenue and our operating results may be harmed. In connection with our U.S. federal government contracts, we are also subject to government audits and review and approval of our policies, procedures and internal controls for compliance with contract terms, procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to contract termination or downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations, could be assessed civil or criminal penalties or could be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such termination, adjustment, sanction, debarment or suspension could have an adverse effect on our business. Market adoption of low-code solutions to drive digital transformation is new and unproven and may not grow as we expect, which may harm our business and prospects. We believe our future success will depend in large part on growth in the demand for low-code solutions to drive software-enabled digital transformation. We have customers in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation. It is difficult to predict customer demand for our platform, renewal rates, the rate at which existing customers expand their subscriptions, the size and growth rate of the market for our platform, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. The utilization of low-code software to drive digital transformation is still relatively new. Any expansion in our addressable market depends on a number of factors, including businesses continuing to desire to differentiate themselves through software-enabled digital transformation, increasing their reliance on low-code solutions, changes in the competitive landscape, technological changes, budgetary constraints of our customers and changes in economic conditions. If our platform does not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for low-code solutions caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate or IT infrastructure spending, weakening economic conditions, or other factors, it could result in reduced customer purchases, reduced renewal rates and decreased revenue, any of which will adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large customers, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense, all of which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our platform and the difficulty that we face in adjusting our short-term operating expenses. Our operating results depend in part on sales to large customers and promotion of increasing usage within those large customers. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of, and payment for, the software, varies substantially from customer to customer. Our sales cycle can extend to more than a year for certain large customers. It is difficult to predict if or when we will make a sale to a potential customer. Prospective customers, especially larger organizations, often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which typically involves not only our platform, but also those of our competitors and can last from four to nine months or longer. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales and marketing efforts 17 without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, events affecting our customers businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. As a result of these factors, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in the future. In the past, certain individual sales have occurred in periods later than we expected or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our operating results for that quarter and any future quarters in which such revenue would otherwise have been recognized. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenue accurately in any quarter, and our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially. Further, because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, our operating results will suffer if revenue falls below our expectations in a particular quarter. We currently face significant competition. The markets for low-code development platforms, business process management, case management software and custom software are highly competitive, rapidly evolving and have relatively low barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors in our market include: platform features, reliability, performance and effectiveness; ease of use and speed; platform extensibility and ability to integrate with other technology infrastructures; deployment flexibility; robustness of professional services and customer support; price and total cost of ownership; strength of platform security and adherence to industry standards and certifications; strength of sales and marketing efforts; and brand awareness and reputation. If we fail to compete effectively with respect to any of these competitive factors, we may fail to attract new customers or lose or fail to renew existing customers, which would cause our operating results to suffer. We primarily compete with low-code development platforms sold by companies such as salesforce.com, inc. and ServiceNow, Inc. We also compete with companies that provide business process management and case management software, including IBM, OpenText Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Pegasystems Inc. and SAP SE. Further, because our platform is used by our customers to create custom applications, there are software companies that offer commercial, off-the-shelf applications as well as custom software solutions that compete with us. For example, our platform is used by DISA to manage procurement processes and contract writing. Competing vendors offer software that specifically performs contract writing functionality, and we have on occasion lost competitive bids to those point solution vendors for contracts with DISA. In addition, large software and internet companies may seek to enter our primary markets. Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, more established relationships with current or potential customers and commercial partners, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios and broader global distribution and presence. Such competitors may make their solutions available at a low cost or no cost basis in order to enhance their overall relationships with current or potential customers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. With the introduction of new technologies and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader offerings and can bundle competing products with other software offerings. As a result, customers may choose a bundled offering from our competitors, even if individual products have more limited functionality than our platform. These larger competitors are also often in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending, and will therefore not be as susceptible to economic downturns. Furthermore, our actual and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources and offerings in the markets we address. In addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such relationships and acquisitions, our actual or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their offerings more quickly than we do. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. 18 If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to our platform or customer data is otherwise obtained, our platform may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our platform and we may incur significant liabilities. Our platform, which can be deployed in the cloud, on-premises or using a hybrid approach, allows for the storage and transmission of our customers proprietary or confidential information, which may include trade secrets, personally identifiable information, personal health information and payment card information. Any actual or perceived unauthorized access to, or security breaches affecting, our platform or the information stored on or transmitted by our platform, including through unauthorized and/or malicious activity by one of our employees, could result in the loss of information, litigation, regulatory investigations, penalties, indemnity obligations and other costs, expenses and liability, which could exceed our existing insurance coverage and could result in a substantial financial loss. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in protecting against unauthorized access to our platform or our customers information. Similarly, if cyber incidents, such as phishing attacks, viruses, denial of service attacks, malware installation, server malfunction, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other computer assets, adware, or other similar issues, impair the integrity or availability of our systems by affecting our data, or reducing access to or shutting down one or more of our computing systems or our IT network, we may be subject to negative treatment by our customers, our business partners, the press, and the public at large. Further, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, we may be subject to attacks on our networks or systems or attempts to gain unauthorized access to our proprietary or confidential information or other data we or our vendors maintain, such as data about our employees. Such attacks and other breaches of security may occur as a result of malicious attacks, human error, social engineering, or other causes. Any actual or perceived breach of our security measures or failure to adequately protect our customers or our confidential or proprietary information could negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions to our software or result in reputational damage, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Further, security compromises experienced by our customers with respect to data hosted on our platform, even if caused by the customers own misuse or negligence, may lead to public disclosures, which could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, or cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions with us. We may be subjected to indemnity demands, regulatory proceedings, audits, penalties or litigation based on our customers misuse of our platform with respect to such sensitive information, and defending against such litigation and otherwise addressing such matters may be expensive, cause distraction, and may result in us incurring liability, all of which may affect our operating results. While we maintain general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions, we cannot assure you that such coverage will be adequate or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging compromises of personal data or that such coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or at all. We derive a material portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customer base is concentrated. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , revenue from U.S. federal government agencies represented 15% , 26% and 33% of our total revenue, respectively, and the top three U.S. federal government customers generated 8% , 18% and 21% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Further, nearly 10% of our subscription customers spent more than $1 million on our software in 2017 . If we were to lose one or more of our significant customers, our revenue may significantly decline. In addition, revenue from significant customers may vary from period to period depending on the timing of renewing existing agreements or entering into new agreements. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, due to our dependence on a limited number of customers, we face a concentration of credit risk. As of December 31, 2017 , one customer accounted for 7.0% of our accounts receivable. In the case of insolvency by one of our significant customers, accounts receivable with respect to that customer might not be collectible, might not be fully collectible, or might be collectible over longer than normal terms, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition. 19 A portion of our revenue is generated from subscriptions sold to governmental entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from subscriptions sold to governmental entities, both in the United States and internationally. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services, pharmaceuticals, insurance and healthcare industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our platform. Selling subscriptions to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Governmental demand and payment for our platform may also be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our platform. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements, including terms that can lead to those customers obtaining broader rights in our products than would be standard. Governmental and highly regulated entities, including the General Services Administration, whose schedule accounts for many of our U.S. federal government contracts, impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions or are otherwise time-consuming and expensive to satisfy. In the United States, applicable federal contracting regulations change frequently, and the President may issue executive orders requiring federal contractors to adhere to new compliance requirements after a contract is signed. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet these special standards or requirements, the additional costs associated with providing our platform to government and highly regulated customers could harm our operating results. Moreover, changes in the underlying statutory and regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide them access to our platform and to grow or maintain our customer base. In addition, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We have experienced losses in the past, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We generated net losses of $31.0 million , $12.5 million and $7.0 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of December 31, 2017 , we had an accumulated deficit of $96.2 million . We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods in order to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase commensurately. For example, we intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our sales and marketing operations, develop and enhance our platform, meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our operation as a public company, and expand into new markets. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, our stock price may significantly decrease. Our future quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a wide range of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict. Our revenue and results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: the level of demand for our platform and our professional services; the rate of renewal of subscriptions with, and extent of sales of additional subscriptions to, existing customers; large customers failing to renew their subscriptions; the size, timing and terms of our subscription agreements with existing and new customers, including revenue recognition issues raised by multiple element arrangements; the timing and growth of our business, in particular through our hiring of new employees and international expansion; the timing of our adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies and the impact on our results of operations; 20 the introduction of new products and product enhancements by existing competitors or new entrants into our market, and changes in pricing for solutions offered by us or our competitors; network outages, security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions with our platform; changes in the growth rate of the markets in which we compete; the mix of subscriptions to our platform and professional services sold during a period; customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new developments or enhancements by us or our competitors or otherwise; changes in customers budgets; seasonal variations related to sales and marketing and other activities, such as expenses related to our customers; our ability to increase, retain and incentivize the strategic partners that market and sell our platform; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; our ability to hire, train and maintain our direct sales force; unforeseen litigation and intellectual property infringement; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; and general economic and political conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers operate. Any one of these or other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the cumulative effect of some of these factors may result in fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, meaning that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, results of operations and cash flows may not necessarily be indicative of our future performance and may cause us to miss our guidance and analyst expectations and may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the fourth quarter and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter. The increase in customer agreements for the fourth quarter is attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. Furthermore, we usually enter into a significant portion of agreements with customers during the last month, and often the last two weeks, of each quarter. This seasonality is reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes is not immediately apparent, in revenue, due to the fact that we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the subscription agreement, which is generally one to five years. We expect that seasonality will continue to affect our operating results in the future and may reduce our ability to predict cash flow and optimize the timing of our operating expenses. We may not be able to shift our revenue towards subscriptions and away from professional services. Currently, our revenue is nearly evenly divided between subscriptions and professional services revenue. Our strategic focus has been to grow subscriptions revenue faster than professional services revenue because our marginal costs in delivering our subscriptions are lower than the marginal costs of delivering professional services. A shift in revenue towards subscriptions therefore results in a higher overall gross profit margin. From 2014 through 2016, the proportion of our revenue attributable to subscriptions increased as a proportion of our total revenue, thereby increasing our overall gross profit margin during such period. Although the proportion of our revenue attributable to subscriptions for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased slightly from such amount for the year ended December 31, 2016, we intend to continue focusing on growing subscriptions revenue faster than professional services revenue in the future. There can be no guarantee that we will successfully shift our revenue towards subscriptions and away from professional services in the future. Our customers may demand more professional services from us, or demand for our subscriptions may grow slower than demand for our professional services. Should we fail to shift our revenue towards subscriptions our earnings may suffer and our stock price may decline. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable 21 financial reports to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate as a publicly traded company. Prior to our initial public offering, or IPO, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal