ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 23, 2018. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors,, set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018, in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We provide a leading low-code software development platform as a service that enables organizations to rapidly develop powerful and unique applications. The applications created on our platform help companies drive digital transformation and competitive differentiation. With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface with little or no coding required. Our customers have used applications built on our low-code platform to launch new business lines, automate vital employee workflows, manage complex trading platforms, accelerate drug development and build global procurement systems. With our platform, decision makers can reimagine their products, services, processes and customer interactions by removing much of the complexity and many of the challenges associated with traditional approaches to software development. In 2017 and 2018, we have generated the majority of our revenue from sales of subscriptions, software and support, which include (1) SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services, and (2) term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. To a lesser extent, we also generate revenue from the sale of perpetual software license agreements and associated maintenance and support agreements. Our subscription fees are based primarily on the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform. Our customer contract terms vary from one to five years with most providing for payment in advance on an annual, quarterly or monthly basis. Due to the variability of our billing terms and the episodic nature of our customers purchasing additional subscriptions, we do not believe that changes in our deferred revenue in a given period are directly correlated with our revenue growth. Since inception, we have invested in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers are able to build and deploy applications on our platform. We have several strategic partnerships, including with Deloitte, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers for them to refer customers to us and then to provide professional services directly to the customers using our platform. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. In addition, over time we expect professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on strategic partners to help our customers deploy our software. We believe our investment in professional services, including strategic partners building their practices around Appian, will drive increased adoption of our platform. 18 Our customers include financial services, life sciences, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation organizations. Generally, our sales force targets its efforts to organizations with over 2,000 employees and $2 billion in annual revenue. Revenue from government agencies represented 12.3% and 16.5% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. No single end-customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our platform is designed to be natively multi-lingual to facilitate collaboration and address challenges in multi-national organizations. We offer our platform globally. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 , 33.3% and 22.7% , respectively, of our total revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. As of March 31, 2018 , we operated in 12 countries. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to grow our international footprint. We are investing in new geographies, including through investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services and customer support and implementation partners. Recent Developments In April 2018, we announced the launch of a new product, the Intelligent Contact Center Platform. The Intelligent Contact Center Platform is a cloud platform that enables the rapid building of contact center solutions by combining the core attributes of the Appian platform with native and integrated artificial intelligence capabilities and several strategic technology partnerships. We expect that the Intelligent Contact Center Platform will be available in June 2018. Our Business Model Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of customer relationships, which is a function of the duration of a customers deployment of Appian as well as the price and number of subscriptions of Appian that a customer purchases. The costs we incur with respect to any customer may exceed revenue from that customer in earlier periods because we generally recognize costs associated with customer acquisition faster than we generate and recognize the associated revenue. We incur significant customer acquisition costs, including expenses associated with hiring new sales representatives, who generally take more than one year to become productive given the length of our sales cycle, and marketing costs, all of which are expensed as incurred. The following are several key factors that affect our performance: Market Adoption of Our Platform. Our ability to grow our customer base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the pace at which organizations digitally transform. We expect that our revenue growth will be primarily driven by the pace of adoption and penetration of our platform. We offer a leading custom software development platform and intend to continue to invest to expand our customer base. The degree to which prospective customers recognize the need for low-code software that enables organizations to digitally transform, and subsequently allocate budget dollars to purchase our software, will drive our ability to acquire new customers and increase sales to existing customers, which, in turn, will affect our future financial performance. Growth of Our Customer Base. We believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our customer base. We define a customer as an entity with an active subscription or maintenance and support contract related to a perpetual software license as of the specified measurement date. To the extent we contract with one or more entities under common control, we count those entities as separate customers. We have aggressively invested, and intend to continue to invest, in our sales force in order to drive sales to new customers. In particular, we have recently made, and plan to continue to make, investments to enhance the expertise of our sales and marketing organization within our key industry verticals of financial services, life sciences and government. In addition, we have established relationships with strategic partners who work with organizations undergoing digital transformations. Our ability to continue to grow our customer base is dependent, in part, upon our ability to compete within the increasingly competitive markets in which we participate. Further Penetration of Existing Customers. Our sales force seeks to generate additional revenue from existing customers by adding new users to our platform. Many of our customers begin by building a single application and then grow to build dozens of applications on our platform. Generally, the development of new applications on our platform results in the expansion of our user base within an organization and a corresponding increase in revenue to us because we charge subscription fees on a per-user basis for the 19 significant majority of our customer contracts. As a result of this land and expand strategy, we have generated significant additional revenue from our customer base. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including the size of our sales force and professional services teams, customers level of satisfaction with our platform and professional services, pricing, economic conditions and our customers overall spending levels. We have also re-focused some of our professional services personnel to become customer success managers. Their role is to ensure the customer realizes value from our platform and support the "land and expand" strategy versus delivering billable hours. Mix of Subscription and Professional Services Revenue. We believe our professional services have driven customer success and facilitated the adoption of our platform by customers. During the initial period of deployment by a customer, we generally provide a greater amount of support in building applications and training than later in the deployment, with a typical engagement extending from two to six months. At the same time, many of our customers have historically purchased subscriptions only for a limited set of their total potential end users. As a result of these factors, the proportion of total revenue for a customer associated with professional services is relatively high during the initial deployment period. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect the mix of total revenue to shift more toward subscription revenue. In addition, we intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they sign. As we expand the network of strategic partners, we expect the proportion of our total revenue from subscriptions to increase over time relative to professional services. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , 52.1% and 55.9% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales of subscriptions, software and support, while the remaining 47.9% and 44.1% , respectively, was derived from the sale of professional services. Investments in Growth. We have made and plan to continue to make investments for long-term growth, including investment in our platform and infrastructure to continuously maximize the power and simplicity of the platform to meet the evolving needs of our customers and to take advantage of our market opportunity. We intend to continue to increase our investment in sales and marketing, as we further expand our sales teams, increase our marketing activities and grow our international operations. Key Metrics We monitor the following metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Subscription Revenue $ 25,488 $ 18,737 March 31, 2018 2017 Subscription Revenue Retention Rate 119 % 117 % Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue is a portion of our revenue contained in the subscriptions, software and support revenue line of our consolidated statements of operations, and includes (1) software as a service, or SaaS, subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services, and (2) term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. As we generally sell our software on a per-user basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform, as well as the price paid. We believe that increasing our subscription revenue is an indicator of the demand for our platform, the pace at which the market for our solutions is growing, the productivity of our sales force and strategic relationships in growing our customer base, and our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base. 20 Subscription Revenue Retention Rate A key factor to our success is the renewal and expansion of subscription agreements with our existing customers. We calculate this metric over a set of customers who have been with us for at least one full year. To calculate our subscription revenue retention rate for a particular trailing 12-month period, we first establish the recurring subscription revenue for the previous trailing 12-month period. This effectively represents recurring dollars that we should expect in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period without any expansion or contraction. We subsequently measure the recurring subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period. Subscription revenue retention rate is then calculated by dividing the aggregate recurring subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period by the previous trailing 12-month period. This calculation includes the impact on our revenue from customer non-renewals, pricing changes and growth in the number of users on our platform. Our subscription revenue retention rate can fluctuate from period to period due to large customer contracts in any given period. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily through sales of subscriptions to our platform, as well as professional services. We generally sell our software on a per-user basis. We generally bill customers and collect payment for subscriptions to our platform in advance on an annual, quarterly or monthly basis. In certain instances, we have had customers pay their entire contract value up front. Our revenue is comprised of the following: Subscriptions, Software and Support Subscriptions, software and support revenue is primarily derived from: SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services; and on-premises term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. To a lesser extent, we also generate revenue from the sale of perpetual software license agreements and associated maintenance and support. Our maintenance and support agreements provide customers with the right to unspecified software upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the maintenance and support agreement on a when-and-if-available basis, and rights to technical support. When our platform is deployed within a customers own data center or private cloud, it is installed on the customers infrastructure and offered as a term or perpetual license. When our platform is delivered as a SaaS subscription, we handle its operational needs in third-party hosted data centers. Professional Services Our professional services revenue is comprised of fees for consulting services, including application development and deployment assistance and training related to our platform. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect the mix of total revenue to shift more toward subscription revenue. We have several strategic partnerships, including with Deloitte, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Our agreements with our strategic partners have indefinite terms and may be terminated for convenience by either party. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners refer software subscription customers to us and perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they originate, increasing our software subscription revenue without any change to our professional services revenue. As we expand the network of strategic partners, we expect professional services revenue to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time since our strategic partners may perform professional services associated with software subscriptions that we sell. 21 Cost of Revenue Subscriptions, Software and Support Cost of subscriptions, software and support revenue consists primarily of fees paid to our third-party managed hosting providers and other third-party service providers, personnel costs, including payroll and benefits for our technology operations and customer support teams, and allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect cost of revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. Professional Services Cost of professional services revenue includes all direct and indirect costs to deliver our professional services and training, including employee compensation for our global professional services and training personnel, travel costs, third-party contractor costs and allocated facility costs and overhead. The unpredictability of the timing of entering into significant professional services agreements sold on a standalone basis may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Gross Margin Gross profit and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by various factors, including the mix of subscription, software and support revenue and professional services revenue. Subscription pricing, the costs associated with third-party hosting facilities, and the extent to which we expand our professional services to support future growth will impact our gross margins. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period based on the above factors. Subscriptions, Software and Support Gross Margin. Subscriptions, software and support gross margin is primarily affected by the growth in our subscriptions, software and support revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, costs to support such revenue. We expect to continue to invest in the customer support and SaaS operations to support the growth in the business and the timing of those investments is expected to cause gross margins to fluctuate in the short term but improve over time. Professional Services Gross Margin. Professional services gross margin is affected by the growth in our professional services revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, the cost of our professional services organization as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. Professional services gross margin is also impacted by the ratable recognition of some of our professional services revenue as compared to the recognition of related costs of services in the period incurred, as well as the amount of services performed by subcontractors as opposed to internal resources. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Salaries, bonuses and other personnel-related costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs related to sales teams. Additional expenses in this category include travel and entertainment, marketing and promotional events, marketing activities, subcontracting fees and allocated facility costs and overhead. In order to continue to grow our business, geographical footprint and brand awareness, we expect to continue investing resources in sales and marketing by increasing the number of sales and account management teams. As a result, we expect sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest to acquire new customers and further expand usage of our platform within our existing customer base. 22 Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs for our employees who develop and enhance our platform, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs. Also included are non personnel costs such as subcontracting, consulting and professional fees to third party development resources, allocated facility costs, overhead and depreciation and amortization costs. Our research and development efforts are focused on enhancing the speed and power of our software platform. We expect research and development expenses to continue to increase as they are critical to maintain and improve our quality of applications and our competitive position. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs for our administrative, legal, information technology, human resources, finance and accounting employees and executives. Additional expenses included in this category are non-personnel costs, such as travel-related expenses, contracting and professional fees, audit fees, tax services and legal fees, as well as insurance and other corporate expenses, along with allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our growth and as a result of our becoming a public company. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscriptions, software and support $ 26,952 $ 21,444 Professional services 24,744 16,885 Total revenue 51,696 38,329 Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 2,628 2,062 Professional services 18,421 10,628 Total cost of revenue 21,049 12,690 Gross profit 30,647 25,639 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 22,964 17,003 Research and development 9,870 7,300 General and administrative 8,060 4,849 Total operating expenses 40,894 29,152 Operating loss (10,247 ) (3,513 ) Other (income) expense: Other (income), net (918 ) (499 ) Interest expense 13 256 Total other (income) (905 ) (243 ) Net loss before income taxes (9,342 ) (3,270 ) Income tax expense 211 125 Net loss $ (9,553 ) $ (3,395 ) 23 The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 52.1 % 55.9 % Professional services 47.9 44.1 Total revenue 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 5.1 5.4 Professional services 35.6 27.7 Total cost of revenue 40.7 33.1 Gross margin 59.3 66.9 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 44.4 44.4 Research and development 19.1 19.0 General and administrative 15.6 12.7 Total operating expenses 79.1 76.1 Operating loss (19.8 ) (9.2 ) Other (income) expense: Other (income), net (1.8 ) (1.3 ) Interest expense 0.7 Total other (income) (1.8 ) (0.6 ) Net loss before income taxes (18.0 ) (8.6 ) Income tax expense 0.4 0.3 Net loss (18.4 )% (8.9 )% Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Revenue Subscriptions, software and support $ 26,952 $ 21,444 25.7 % Professional services 24,744 16,885 46.5 Total revenue $ 51,696 $ 38,329 34.9 Total revenue increased $13.4 million, or 34.9% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 , due to an increase in our professional services revenue of $7.9 million and an increase in our subscriptions, software and support revenue of $5.5 million. The increase in professional services revenue was due to $1.4 million of additional revenue from existing customers and $6.5 million in sales to new customers. The increase in subscriptions, software and support revenue was attributable to $2.3 million of revenue from expanded deployments and corresponding sales of additional subscriptions to existing customers and $3.2 million in sales of subscriptions to new customers. 24 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support $ 2,628 $ 2,062 27.4 % Professional services 18,421 10,628 73.3 Total cost of revenue $ 21,049 $ 12,690 65.9 Subscriptions, software and support gross margin 90.2 % 90.4 % Professional services gross margin 25.6 37.1 Total gross margin 59.3 66.9 Cost of revenue increased $8.4 million, or 65.9% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a $5.4 million increase in contractor costs, a $1.6 million increase in professional services and product support personnel costs, a $1.1 million increase in billable expenses, a $0.2 million increase in other cost of revenue and a $0.1 million increase in facility and overhead costs. Contractor costs increased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 because of an increase in the usage of subcontractors for professional service engagements. Personnel costs increased due to $0.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, an increase in professional services and product support staff personnel headcount of 8.2% from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018 and an increase in the number of experienced professional services employees in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Billable expenses increased because we had more professional services engagements in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in other cost of revenue is due to increased hosting costs as sales of our cloud offering increased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Subscriptions, software and support gross margin decreased to 90.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 90.4% in the same period in 2017 due to an increase in product support personnel costs. Professional services gross margin decreased to 25.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 37.1% in 2017 due to an increase in the usage of subcontractors for professional services engagements and the re-focusing of some professional services personnel to customer success managers. To a lesser degree, the gross margin of our professional services revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was also negatively impacted by a decrease in the utilization rate of professional services resources as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to an increase in hiring. Due to the higher relative proportion of professional services revenue and the decrease in our professional services margin, gross margin decreased to 59.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 66.9 % in the same period in 2017 . Sales and Marketing Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 22,964 $ 17,003 35.1 % % of revenue 44.4 % 44.4 % Sales and marketing expense increased $6.0 million, or 35.1% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a $4.1 million increase in sales and marketing personnel costs, a $1.1 million increase in facility and overhead costs, a $0.7 million increase in marketing costs and a $0.1 million increase in professional fees. Personnel costs increased due to $0.5 million in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , an increase in sales and marketing personnel headcount by 25.3% from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018 , and increased sales commissions driven by our revenue growth. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Marketing costs increased due to an increase in advertising costs as well as a rise in marketing event sponsorship and attendance. Professional fees increased due to an increase in consulting fees. 25 Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 9,870 $ 7,300 35.2 % % of revenue 19.1 % 19.0 % Research and development expense increased $2.6 million, or 35.2% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a $2.2 million increase in research and development personnel costs and a $0.4 million increase in facility and overhead costs. Personnel costs increased due to $0.4 million in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and an increase in research and development personnel headcount by 30.6% from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018 . Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expense $ 8,060 $ 4,849 66.2 % % of revenue 15.6 % 12.7 % General and administrative expense increased $3.2 million, or 66.2% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a $1.9 million increase in general and administrative personnel costs, a $0.6 million increase in facility and overhead costs, a $0.5 million increase in professional fees and a $0.2 million increase in legal and accounting costs. Personnel costs increased due to $1.0 million in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and an increase in general and administrative personnel headcount by 32.1% from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018 in order to support the additional requirements of being a public company. Facility and overhead costs as well as contractor costs increased to support our personnel growth. Professional fees increased due to use of consulting services to assist with the implementation of new software to support our back-office functions. Legal and accounting costs increased due to costs incurred during the negotiation of the lease agreement for our new headquarters and as a result of becoming a public company. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018 , we had $60.9 million of cash and cash equivalents. On May 31, 2017, we closed our initial public offering, or IPO, of 7,187,500 shares of our Class A common stock at an offering price of $12.00 per share, including 937,500 shares pursuant to the underwriters option to purchase additional Class A shares, resulting in net proceeds to us of $77.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $6.0 million and offering expenses of $2.4 million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our line of credit, will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, particularly internationally, and the introduction of new and enhanced products and functions, platform enhancements and professional services offerings and the level of market acceptance of our applications. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and investments and cash from operations are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, 26 or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (13,833 ) $ 3,705 Cash used in investing activities (1,036 ) (105 ) Cash provided by financing activities 983 Sources of Funds We have financed our operations in large part with equity and debt financing arrangements, including net proceeds of $77.8 million from our IPO and $10.0 million from the sale of shares of preferred stock over a period of several years prior to our IPO, as well as through sales of software and professional services and borrowings under our credit facilities. As of March 31, 2018 , we had no outstanding borrowings. In November 2017, we entered into a $20.0 million revolving line of credit with a lender. The facility matures in November 2022. We may elect whether amounts drawn on the revolving line of credit bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to either the LIBOR or the prime rate plus an additional interest rate margin that is determined by the availability of the borrowings under the revolving line of credit. The additional interest rate margin will range from 2.00% to 2.50% in the case of LIBOR advances and from 1.00% to 1.50% in the case of prime rate advances. The revolving line of credit contains an unused facility fee in an amount between 0.15% and 0.25% of the average unused portion of the revolving line of credit, which is payable quarterly. The agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and requires us to maintain (1) an adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.35 to 1.0 and (ii) minimum adjusted EBITDA, in the amounts and for the periods set forth in the agreement. Any amounts borrowed under the credit facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2018 . Use of Funds Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and other working capital requirements. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Historical Cash Flows Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in operating activities of $13.8 million consisted of a net loss of $9.6 million and $6.8 million of cash used in changes in working capital, offset by $2.6 million in adjustments for non-cash items. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of stock-based compensation of $2.2 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.3 million and a provision for deferred income taxes of $0.1 million. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a decrease in deferred revenue of $3.8 million, as a result of decreased subscription sales, a $2.7 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, primarily due to the payment of year-end bonuses, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $2.1 million, primarily due to the timing of payments and a $1.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, primarily due to the timing of collections. We converted less accounts receivable into cash collections during the three months ended March 31, 2018 than the three months ended March 31, 2017 . There was also a $0.7 million increase in other liabilities and a $0.3 million decrease in deferred commissions due to decreased sales. 27 For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash provided by operating activities of $3.7 million consisted of a net loss of $3.4 million, offset by $6.9 million of cash provided by changes in working capital and $0.2 million in adjustments for non-cash items. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of depreciation and amortization expense of $0.2 million. The increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $14.3 million, primarily driven by increased cash collections during the period. This increase was partially offset by a $3.9 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and a $2.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million and $0.1 million , respectively, for the purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million, consisting of proceeds received from stock option exercises. There were no cash flows from financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2018 , there was no material change in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018. On April 17, 2018, we entered into a lease agreement for a new headquarters in Tysons, Virginia pursuant to which we have leased approximately 176,000 square feet. The initial term of the lease will commence no later than May 1, 2019 and expires 150 months later, unless earlier terminated, with an option to extend the lease term for two consecutive five-year periods. No annual rent is due for the first 15 months of the initial term of the lease, after which time the monthly base rent will be $450,835, subject to a 3% annual increase. Within 12 months of the commencement of the initial term of the lease, an additional 28,805 square feet of adjacent office space will be added, or the "Must-Take Space. No annual rent is due for a prorated period of time following the addition of the Must-Take Space, after which time the monthly base rent for the Must-Take Space will be $73,693, subject to a 3% annual increase. Including the Must-Take Space, the aggregate base rent payable is approximately $81.9 million over the term of the lease. We are also responsible for the payment of a portion of taxes and operating expenses. The payment schedule for the lease is as follows: $0.5 million, $7.6 million, $13.3 million and $64.9 million for the last nine months of 2018, 2019-2021, 2022-2023 and after 2023, respectively. In connection with entering into the lease agreement, we amended our sublease with College Entrance Examination Board, which will terminate the sublease agreement. Pursuant to the termination amendment, the sublease will terminate in two stages, with the termination of a majority of the premises taking place on May 31, 2019, rather than July 31, 2021 as originally contemplated by the sublease. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. We therefore believe that we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from 28 those estimates. Significant estimates embedded in the consolidated financial statements for the period presented include revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and income taxes. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. JOBS Act Transition Period In April 2012, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, was enacted. Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards and to adopt certain of the reduced disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies. As a result of the accounting standards election, we will not be subject to the same implementation timing for new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies which may make comparison of our financials to those of other public companies more difficult.