Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 21, 2019. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations, including statements regarding our future financial and operating performance, anticipated expansion of the usage of partners to perform professional services and our anticipated capital expenditures on our new headquarters. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019 and in our other filings with the SEC. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We provide a low-code software development platform that allows companies to rapidly build powerful business applications. The applications created on our platform help companies drive digital transformation and competitive differentiation. With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface with little or no coding required. Our customers have used applications built on our low-code platform to launch new business lines, automate vital employee workflows, manage complex trading platforms, accelerate drug development and build global procurement systems. With our platform, decision makers can reimagine their products, services, processes and customer interactions by removing much of the complexity and many of the challenges associated with traditional approaches to software development. We have generated the majority of our revenue from sales of subscriptions, software and support, which include (1) SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services, and (2) term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. Our subscription fees are based primarily on the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform and, to a lesser degree, non-user based single application licenses. Our customer contract terms vary from one to five years, with an average length of less than three years, with most providing for payment in advance on an annual, quarterly or monthly basis. Due to the variability of our billing terms and the episodic nature of our customers purchasing additional subscriptions, we do not believe that changes in our deferred revenue in a given period are directly correlated with our revenue growth. Since inception, we have invested in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers are able to build and deploy applications on our platform. We have several strategic partnerships, including with KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte, for them to refer customers to us and then to provide professional services directly to the customers using our platform. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. In addition, over time we expect professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on strategic partners to help our customers deploy our software. We believe our investment in professional services, including strategic partners building their practices around Appian, will drive increased adoption of our platform. 21 Our customers include financial services, life sciences, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing and transportation organizations. Generally, our sales force targets its efforts to organizations with over 2,000 employees and $2 billion in annual revenue. Revenue from government agencies represented 17.9% and 12.3% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No single end-customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018 . Our platform supports multiple languages to facilitate collaboration and address challenges in multi-national organizations. We offer our platform globally. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, 29.7% and 33.3%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. As of March 31, 2019, we operated in 12 countries. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to grow our international footprint. We are investing in new geographies, including through investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services and customer support and implementation partners. Our Business Model Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of customer relationships, which is a function of the duration of a customers deployment of Appian as well as the price and number of subscriptions of Appian that a customer purchases. The costs we incur with respect to any customer may exceed revenue from that customer in earlier periods because we generally recognize costs associated with customer acquisition faster than we generate and recognize the associated revenue. We incur significant customer acquisition costs, including expenses associated with hiring new sales representatives, who generally take more than one year to become productive given the length of our sales cycle, and marketing costs, all of which, with the exception of sales commissions, are expensed as incurred. The following are several key factors that affect our performance: Market Adoption of Our Platform. Our ability to grow our customer base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the pace at which organizations digitally transform. We expect that our revenue growth will be primarily driven by the pace of adoption and penetration of our platform. We offer a leading custom software development platform and intend to continue to invest to expand our customer base. The degree to which prospective customers recognize the need for low-code software that enables organizations to digitally transform, and subsequently allocate budget dollars to purchase our software, will drive our ability to acquire new customers and increase sales to existing customers, which, in turn, will affect our future financial performance. Growth of Our Customer Base. We believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our customer base. We define a customer as an entity with an active subscription or active maintenance and support contract related to a perpetual software license as of the specified measurement date. To the extent we contract with one or more entities under common control, we count those entities as separate customers. We have aggressively invested, and intend to continue to invest, in our sales force in order to drive sales to new customers. In particular, we have recently made, and plan to continue to make, investments to enhance the expertise of our sales and marketing organization within our key industry verticals of financial services, life sciences and government. In addition, we have established relationships with strategic partners who work with organizations undergoing digital transformations. Our ability to continue to grow our customer base is dependent, in part, upon our ability to compete within the increasingly competitive markets in which we participate. 22 Further Penetration of Existing Customers. Our sales force seeks to generate additional revenue from existing customers by adding new users to our platform. Many of our customers begin by building a single application and then grow to build dozens of applications on our platform. Generally, the development of new applications on our platform results in the expansion of our user base within an organization and a corresponding increase in revenue to us because we charge subscription fees on a per-user basis for the significant majority of our customer contracts. As a result of this "land and expand" strategy, we have generated significant additional revenue from our customer base. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including the size of our sales force and professional services teams, customers level of satisfaction with our platform and professional services, pricing, economic conditions and our customers overall spending levels. We have also re-focused some of our professional services personnel to become customer success managers. Their role is to ensure the customer realizes value from our platform and support the "land and expand" strategy versus delivering billable hours. Mix of Subscription and Professional Services Revenue. We believe our professional services have driven customer success and facilitated the adoption of our platform by customers. During the initial period of deployment by a customer, we generally provide a greater amount of support in building applications and training than later in the deployment, with a typical engagement extending from two to six months. At the same time, many of our customers have historically purchased subscriptions only for a limited set of their total potential end users. As a result of these factors, the proportion of total revenue for a customer associated with professional services is relatively high during the initial deployment period. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect the mix of total revenue to shift more toward subscription revenue. In addition, we intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they sign with our customers. As the usage of partners expands, we expect the proportion of our total revenue from subscriptions to increase over time relative to professional services. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, 58.6% and 52.1% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales of subscriptions, software and support, while the remaining 41.4% and 47.9%, respectively, was derived from the sale of professional services. Investments in Growth. We have made and plan to continue to make investments for long-term growth, including investment in our platform and infrastructure to continuously maximize the power and simplicity of the platform to meet the evolving needs of our customers and to take advantage of our market opportunity. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing, as we further expand our sales teams, increase our marketing activities and grow our international operations. Key Metrics We monitor the following metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Subscription Revenue $ 33,586 $ 25,488 As of March 31, 2019 2018 Subscription Revenue Retention Rate 116 % 119 % Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue is a portion of our revenue contained in the subscriptions, software and support revenue line of our consolidated statements of operations, and includes (1) software as a service, or SaaS, subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services, and (2) term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. As we generally sell our software on a per-user basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform, as well as the price paid. We believe that increasing our subscription revenue is an indicator of the demand for our platform, the pace at which the market for our 23 solutions is growing, the productivity of our sales force and strategic relationships in growing our customer base, and our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base. Subscription Revenue Retention Rate A key factor to our success is the renewal and expansion of subscription agreements with our existing customers. We calculate this metric over a set of customers who have been with us for at least one full year. To calculate our subscription revenue retention rate for a particular trailing 12-month period, we first establish the recurring subscription revenue for the previous trailing 12-month period. This effectively represents recurring dollars that we should expect in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period without any expansion or contraction. We subsequently measure the recurring subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period. Subscription revenue retention rate is then calculated by dividing the aggregate recurring subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period by the previous trailing 12-month period. This calculation includes the impact on our revenue from customer non-renewals, pricing changes and growth in the number of users on our platform. Our subscription revenue retention rate can fluctuate from period to period due to large customer contracts in any given period. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily through sales of subscriptions to our platform, as well as professional services. We generally sell our software on a per-user basis. We generally bill customers and collect payment for subscriptions to our platform in advance on an annual, quarterly or monthly basis. In certain instances, we have had customers pay their entire contract value up front. Our revenue is comprised of the following: Subscriptions, Software and Support Subscriptions, software and support revenue is primarily derived from: SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services; and on-premises term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support . Our maintenance and support agreements provide customers with the right to unspecified software upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the maintenance and support agreement on a when-and-if-available basis, and rights to technical support. When our platform is deployed within a customers own data center or private cloud, it is installed on the customers infrastructure and generally offered as a term license. When our platform is delivered as a SaaS subscription, we handle its operational needs in third-party hosted data centers. Professional Services Our professional services revenue is comprised of fees for consulting services, including application development and deployment assistance and training related to our platform. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect the mix of total revenue to shift more toward subscription revenue. We have several strategic partnerships, including with KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte. Our agreements with our strategic partners have indefinite terms and may be terminated for convenience by either party. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners refer software subscription customers to us and, generally, perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they originate, increasing our software subscription revenue without any change to our professional services revenue. As we expand the usage of partners, we expect professional services revenue to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time since our partners may perform professional services associated with software subscriptions that we sell. 24 Cost of Revenue Subscriptions, Software and Support Cost of subscriptions, software and support revenue consists primarily of fees paid to our third-party managed hosting providers and other third-party service providers, personnel costs, including payroll and benefits for our technology operations and customer support teams, and allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect cost of revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. Professional Services Cost of professional services revenue includes all direct and indirect costs to deliver our professional services and training, including employee compensation for our global professional services and training personnel, third-party contractor costs, allocated facility costs and overhead, as well as the costs of billable expenses, such as travel and lodging. The unpredictability of the timing of entering into significant professional services agreements sold on a standalone basis may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Gross Margin Gross profit and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by various factors, including the mix of subscription, software and support revenue and professional services revenue. Subscription pricing, the costs associated with third-party hosting facilities, and the extent to which we expand our professional services to support future growth will impact our gross margins. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period based on the above factors. Subscriptions, Software and Support Gross Margin. Subscriptions, software and support gross margin is primarily affected by the growth in our subscriptions, software and support revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, costs to support such revenue. We expect to continue to invest in the customer support and SaaS operations to support the growth in the business and the timing of those investments is expected to cause gross margins to fluctuate. Professional Services Gross Margin. Professional services gross margin is affected by the growth in our professional services revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, the cost of our professional services organization as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. Professional services gross margin is also impacted by the ratable recognition of some of our professional services revenue as compared to the recognition of related costs of services in the period incurred, as well as the amount of services performed by subcontractors as opposed to internal resources. Our professional services gross margin is also impacted by the amount of services performed by partners as opposed to internal resources. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Salaries, bonuses and other personnel-related costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs related to sales teams. Additional expenses in this category include travel and entertainment, marketing and promotional events, marketing activities, subcontracting fees and allocated facility costs and overhead. In order to continue to grow our business, geographical footprint and brand awareness, we expect to continue investing resources in sales and marketing by increasing the number of sales and account management teams. As a result, we expect sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest to acquire new customers and further expand usage of our platform within our existing customer base. 25 Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs for our employees who develop and enhance our platform, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs. Also included are non-personnel costs such as subcontracting, consulting and professional fees to third party development resources, allocated facility costs, overhead and depreciation and amortization costs. Our research and development efforts are focused on enhancing the speed and power of our software platform. We expect research and development expenses to continue to increase as they are critical to maintain and improve our quality of applications and our competitive position. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and other personnel costs for our administrative, legal, information technology, human resources, finance and accounting employees and executives. Additional expenses included in this category are non-personnel costs, such as travel-related expenses, contracting and professional fees, audit fees, tax services and legal fees, as well as insurance and other corporate expenses, along with allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our growth and as a result of our becoming a public company. Other Expense (Income) Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of unrealized and realized gains and losses related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest income on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and unused fees on our credit facility and commitment fees on our letters of credit. 26 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscriptions, software and support $ 34,909 $ 26,952 Professional services 24,670 24,744 Total revenue 59,579 51,696 Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 3,585 2,628 Professional services 20,481 18,421 Total cost of revenue 24,066 21,049 Gross profit 35,513 30,647 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 29,945 22,964 Research and development 13,956 9,870 General and administrative 9,016 8,060 Total operating expenses 52,917 40,894 Operating loss (17,404) (10,247) Other expense (income): Other income, net (60) (918) Interest expense 71 13 Total other expense (income) 11 (905) Loss before income taxes (17,415) (9,342) Income tax expense 122 211 Net loss $ (17,537) $ (9,553) 27 The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 58.6 % 52.1 % Professional services 41.4 47.9 Total revenue 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support 6.0 5.1 Professional services 34.4 35.6 Total cost of revenue 40.4 40.7 Gross margin 59.6 59.3 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 50.3 44.4 Research and development 23.4 19.1 General and administrative 15.1 15.6 Total operating expenses 88.8 79.1 Operating loss (29.2) (19.8) Other expense (income): Other income, net (0.1) (1.8) Interest expense 0.1 Total other expense (income) (1.8) Loss before income taxes (29.2) (18.0) Income tax expense 0.2 0.4 Net loss (29.4) % (18.4) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Revenue Subscriptions, software and support $ 34,909 $ 26,952 29.5 % Professional services 24,670 24,744 (0.3) Total revenue $ 59,579 $ 51,696 15.2 Total revenue increased $7.9 million, or 15.2%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, due to an increase in our subscriptions, software and support revenue of $8.0 million, offset by a decrease in our professional services revenue of $0.1 millio n. The increase in subscriptions, software and support revenue was attributable to $4.3 million of revenue from expanded deployments and corresponding sales of additional subscriptions to existing customers and $3.7 million in sales of subscriptions to new customers. The decrease in professional services revenue was due to an increase in the usage of our partners for professional service engagements. 28 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscriptions, software and support $ 3,585 $ 2,628 36.4 % Professional services 20,481 18,421 11.2 Total cost of revenue $ 24,066 $ 21,049 14.3 Subscriptions, software and support gross margin 89.7 % 90.2 % Professional services gross margin 17.0 25.6 Total gross margin 59.6 59.3 Cost of revenue increased $3.0 million, or 14.3%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $3.3 million increase in professional services and product support personnel costs, a $0.6 million increase in facility and overhead costs and a $0.5 million increase in other cost of revenue, offset by a $1.2 million decrease in contractor costs and a $0.2 million decrease in billable expenses. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in professional services and product support staff personnel headcount of 20.7% from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 and a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to three of our co-founders in the three months ended December 31, 2018. These restricted stock units vested in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. The increase in other cost of revenue was due to increased hosting costs as sales of our cloud offering increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Contractor costs decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 because of a decrease in the usage of subcontractors for professional service engagements and a decrease in the average hourly rate for subcontractors. Billable expenses decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 because of a decrease in the utilization rate of professional services resources. Subscriptions, software and support gross margin decreased to 89.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 90.2% in the same period in 2018 due to increased hosting costs as sales of our cloud offering increased and became a larger proportion of our overall subscription, software and support revenue. Professional services gross margin decreased to 17.0% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 25.6% in the same period in 2018 due to a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to three of our co-founders. There was also an increase in the use of customer success managers during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. To a lesser degree, the gross margin of our professional services revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was also negatively impacted by a decrease in the utilization rate of professional services resources as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to an increase in the usage of our partners for professional service engagements. Due to the higher percentage of subscriptions, software and support revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, gross margin increased to 59.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 59.3% in the same period in 2018. Sales and Marketing Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 29,945 $ 22,964 30.4 % % of revenue 50.3 % 44.4 % Sales and marketing expense increased $7.0 million, or 30.4%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $5.2 million increase in sales and marketing personnel costs, a $1.4 million increase 29 in facility and overhead costs, a $0.2 million increase in both marketing costs and professional fees. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in sales and marketing personnel headcount by 17.4% from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019, increased sales commissions driven by our revenue growth and a $1.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to three of our co-founders in the three months ended December 31, 2018. These restricted stock units vested in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Marketing costs increased due to a rise in marketing event sponsorship and attendance, as well as an increase in public relations expense. Professional fees increased due to an increase in consulting fees to support our ongoing marketing events and activities. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 13,956 $ 9,870 41.4 % % of revenue 23.4 % 19.1 % Research and development expense increased $4.1 million, or 41.4%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $3.4 million increase in research and development personnel costs, a $0.6 million increase in facility and overhead costs and a $0.1 million increase in professional fees. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in research and development personnel headcount by 24.4% from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 and a $1.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to three of our co-founders in the three months ended December 31, 2018. These restricted stock units vested in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Professional fees increased due to an increase in consulting fees to support the development and enhancement of our platform. General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expense $ 9,016 $ 8,060 11.9 % % of revenue 15.1 % 15.6 % General and administrative expense increased $0.9 million, or 11.9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in facility and overhead costs and a $0.4 million increase in general and administrative personnel costs, offset by a $0.1 million decrease in professional fees. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in general and administrative personnel headcount by 19.8% from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 in order to support the additional requirements of being a public company, offset by a $0.4 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Stock-based compensation expense decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to the vesting of an option to purchase 1,828,080 shares of our Class A common stock in August 2018. Professional fees decreased due to a decrease in legal fees. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, additional legal fees were incurred during the negotiation of the lease agreement for our new headquarters. 30 Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ (60) $ (918) (93.5) % % of revenue (0.1) % (1.8) % Other income, net decreased by $0.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to $0.3 million in foreign exchange loss in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $0.8 million in foreign exchange gain in the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in foreign exchange loss was primarily due to currency fluctuations of the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Australian dollar and Swiss Franc versus the U.S. dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. There was also a $0.2 million increase in interest income in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ 71 $ 13 % of revenue 0.1 % % Interest expense increased by $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to commitment fees on the letter of credit to fund the security deposit required by the lease for our new headquarters. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019, we had $75.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our line of credit, will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, particularly internationally, and the introduction of new and enhanced products and functions, platform enhancements and professional services offerings, the level of market acceptance of our applications and spending on our new headquarters. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and investments and cash from operations are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 31 The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (4,139) $ (13,833) Cash used in investing activities (16,595) (1,036) Cash provided by financing activities 1,073 983 Sources of Funds We have financed our operations in large part with equity and debt financing arrangements, including net proceeds of $77.8 million from our initial public offering in May 2017 and net proceeds of $57.8 million from our underwritten public offering in August 2018, as well as through sales of software and professional services and borrowings under our credit facilities. We expect to finance approximately $5.0 million of furniture and equipment associated with the build-out of our new headquarters. As of March 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings. In November 2017, we entered into a $20.0 million revolving line of credit with a lender. The facility matures in November 2022. We may elect whether amounts drawn on the revolving line of credit bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to either the LIBOR or the prime rate plus an additional interest rate margin that is determined by the availability of borrowings under the revolving line of credit. The additional interest rate margin will range from 2.00% to 2.50% in the case of LIBOR advances and from 1.00% to 1.50% in the case of prime rate advances. The revolving line of credit contains an unused facility fee in an amount between 0.15% and 0.25% of the average unused portion of the revolving line of credit, which is payable quarterly. The agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and requires us to maintain (1) an adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.35 to 1.0 and (ii) minimum adjusted EBITDA in the amounts and for the periods set forth in the agreement. Any amounts borrowed under the credit facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2019. Use of Funds Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and other working capital requirements. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Our cash requirements will also increase in the near future as we continue construction of our new headquarters. We expect to spend approximately $20.0 million above the tenant improvement allowance provided by the landlord on the build-out of our new headquarters, approximately $5.0 million of which we expect will be financed for the purchase of furniture and equipment. Based on what we have incurred as of March 31, 2019, we expect our remaining net expenditures above the tenant improvement allowance to be less than $5.0 million. Historical Cash Flows Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in operating activities of $4.1 million consisted of a net loss of $17.5 million, offset by $8.0 million in adjustments for non-cash items and $5.4 million of cash provided changes in working capital. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of stock-based compensation of $7.2 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million. The increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a $3.7 million increase in deferred revenue, as a result of increased subscription sales. There was also a $3.7 million increase in deferred rent, non-current, as a result of taking initial possession of the second phase of our new headquarters in February 2019 and recording an additional lease incentive obligation. There was also a $1.6 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, primarily due to the timing of payments, a $1.2 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily due to a decrease in the non-trade receivable resulting from our tenant improvement allowance. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, the $4.5 million of 32 tenant improvement allowance reimbursements received during the three months ended March 31, 2019 are a source of cash in operating activities, whereas the capital expenditures are recorded as cash used in investing activities. These increases were partially offset by a $1.7 million increase in accounts receivable, due to increased sales in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as well as the timing of billings and collections. There was also a $1.5 million increase in deferred commissions due to increased sales, a $1.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, primarily due to the payment of year-end bonuses, and a $0.1 million decrease in other current liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in operating activities of $13.8 million consisted of a net loss of $9.6 million and $6.8 million of cash used in changes in working capital, offset by $2.6 million in adjustments for non-cash items. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of stock-based compensation of $2.2 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.3 million and a provision for deferred income taxes of $0.1 million. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a decrease in deferred revenue of $3.8 million, as a result of decreased subscription sales, a $2.7 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, primarily due to the payment of year-end bonuses, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $2.1 million, primarily due to the timing of payments and a $1.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, primarily due to the timing of collections. We converted less accounts receivable into cash collections during the three months ended March 31, 2018 than the three months ended March 31, 2017. There was also a $0.7 million increase in other liabilities and a $0.3 million decrease in deferred commissions due to decreased sales. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $16.6 million, for the build-out of our new headquarters and the purchase of property and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million, for the purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively, consisting of proceeds received from stock option exercises. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2019, there was no material change in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. We believe, therefore, that we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates embedded in the consolidated financial statements for the periods presented include revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and income taxes. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019. 33 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. JOBS Act Transition Period In April 2012, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, was enacted. Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards and to adopt certain of the reduced disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies. As a result of the accounting standards election, we will not be subject to the same implementation timing for new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies which may make comparison of our financials to those of other public companies more difficult.