Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on 23 Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 20, 2020. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations, including statements regarding our future financial and operating performance, anticipated expansion of the usage of partners to perform professional services, the increase of our subscriptions revenue as a percentage of total revenue, the fluctuation of gross margin in the short term and improvement of gross margin over time, our future capital requirements, and uncertain negative impacts that COVID-19 may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and changes in overall level of spending and volatility in the global economy. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020 and in our other filings with the SEC. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We provide a low-code automation platform that accelerates the creation of high-impact business applications, enabling our customers to automate the most important aspects of their business. Global organizations use our applications to improve customer experience, achieve operational excellence, and simplify global risk management and compliance. With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build, and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface with little or no coding required. Our customers have used applications built on our platform to launch new business lines, automate vital employee workflows, manage complex trading platforms, accelerate drug development, and build global procurement systems. With our platform, decision makers can reimagine their products, services, processes, and customer interactions by removing much of the complexity and many of the challenges associated with traditional approaches to software development. We have generated the majority of our revenue from sales of subscriptions, which include (1) software as a service subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services, and (2) term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. Our subscription fees are based primarily on the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform or, alternatively, non-user based single application licenses. Our customer contract terms generally vary from one to three years with most providing for payment in advance on an annual, quarterly, or monthly basis. Due to the variability of our billing terms and the episodic nature of our customers purchasing additional subscriptions, we do not believe changes in our deferred revenue in a given period are directly correlated with our revenue growth. Since inception, we have invested in our professional services organization to help ensure customers are able to build and deploy applications on our platform. We have several strategic partnerships, including with KPMG, PwC, Accenture, and Deloitte, for them to refer customers to us in order to purchase subscriptions and then to provide professional services directly to the customers using our platform. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. In addition, over time we expect professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on strategic partners to help our customers deploy our software. We believe our investment in professional services, including strategic partners building their practices around Appian, will drive increased adoption of our platform. Our customers include financial services, life sciences, government, telecommunications, media, energy, manufacturing, and transportation organizations. Generally, our sales force targets its efforts on organizations with over 2,000 employees and $2 billion in annual revenue. Revenue from government agencies represented 14.9% and 17.8% of our total revenue in the three 24 months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively. No single end-customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2020 or March 31, 2019. Our platform supports multiple languages to facilitate collaboration and address challenges in multi-national organizations. We offer our platform globally. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, 33.5% and 31.9%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. As of March 31, 2020, we operated in 12 countries. We believe we have a significant opportunity to grow our international footprint. We are investing in new geographies, including through investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services, and customer support and implementation partners. Basis of Reporting - ASC 606 We adopted ASC 606, the new revenue recognition guidance, on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method. Under this method of adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated deficit and applied the new standard only to contracts that were not completed prior January 1, 2019. Because we were an emerging growth company until December 31, 2019, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act allowed us to delay adoption of ASC 606 until such time it was made applicable to private companies. We elected to use this extended transition period, and accordingly, did not report revenues under ASC 606 in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2019. Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020, for a complete reconciliation of our revenues under the old and new guidance. Prior period revenue amounts in this Form 10-Q have been recast as if we had reported under ASC 606 for the applicable periods. Recent Developments Acquisition of Novayre Solutions SL In January 2020, we acquired Novayre Solutions SL, or Novayre, a developer of a robotic process automation platform, for approximately $6.9 million. The transaction was financed through available cash on hand. Novayre's results of operations are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations from the acquisition date onwards. COVID-19 Beginning in late 2019 and continuing into the first quarter of 2020, the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, or COVID-19, has resulted in the declaration of a global pandemic and adversely affected economic activity across virtually all sectors and industries on a local, national, and global scale. The impact of COVID-19 on the economy and our business continues to be a fluid situation. Operationally, we remain focused on supporting our customers, employees, and communities during this time. We have responded quickly to adopt a virtual corporate strategy consisting of enabling most of our employees to work productively from home while continuing to guard the health and safety of our teams, support our customers, and mitigate risk. We are focused on ensuring continuity for our customers. To the extent possible, we are conducting business as usual, with necessary or advisable modifications to employee travel, employee work locations, and marketing events. For instance, we have decided to move our annual user conference Appian World to a virtual-only format this year. Through March 31, 2020, we have not seen a meaningful adverse impact to our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows and liquidity as a result of COVID-19. While the verticals from which we have historically generated the majority of our revenue have been less impacted by COVID-19 to date, there may be impacts to our financial condition and results of operations in the second quarter of 2020 and beyond as a result of reduced demand for our products and services and longer sales cycles. The ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our business is not estimable at this time and will be largely dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control including the extent and duration of the outbreak as well as any mitigating actions which may be undertaken by global governments and the general public. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on certain risks and uncertainties stemming from COVID-19. 25 Our Business Model Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of customer relationships, which is a function of the duration of a customers deployment of Appian as well as the price and number of subscriptions of Appian that a customer purchases. We incur significant customer acquisition costs, including expenses associated with hiring new sales representatives, who generally take more than one year to become productive given the length of our sales cycle, and marketing costs, all of which, with the exception of sales commissions, are expensed as incurred. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance The following are several key factors that affect our performance: Market Adoption of Our Platform. Our ability to grow our customer base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the pace at which organizations digitally transform. We expect our revenue growth will be primarily driven by the pace of adoption and penetration of our platform. We offer a leading custom software automation platform and intend to continue to invest to expand our customer base. The degree to which prospective customers recognize the need for low-code software that enables organizations to digitally transform, and subsequently allocate budget dollars to purchase our software, will drive our ability to acquire new customers and increase sales to existing customers, which, in turn, will affect our future financial performance. Growth of Our Customer Base. We believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our customer base. We define a customer as an entity with an active subscription or maintenance and support contract related to a perpetual software license as of the specified measurement date. To the extent we contract with one or more entities under common control, we count those entities as separate customers. We have aggressively invested, and intend to continue to invest, in our sales force in order to drive sales to new customers. In particular, we have recently made, and plan to continue to make, investments to enhance the expertise of our sales and marketing organization within our key industry verticals of financial services, life sciences, and government. In addition, we have established relationships with strategic partners who work with organizations undergoing digital transformations. Our ability to continue to grow our customer base is dependent, in part, upon our ability to compete within the increasingly competitive markets in which we participate. Further Penetration of Existing Customers. Our sales force seeks to generate additional revenue from existing customers by adding new users to our platform. Many of our customers begin by building a single application and then grow to build dozens of applications on our platform. Generally, the development of new applications on our platform results in the expansion of our user base within an organization and a corresponding increase in revenue to us because we charge subscription fees on a per-user basis for the significant majority of our customer contracts. As a result of this land and expand strategy, we have generated significant additional revenue from our customer base. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including the size of our sales force and professional services teams, customers level of satisfaction with our platform and professional services, pricing, economic conditions, and our customers overall spending levels. We have also refocused some of our professional services personnel to become customer success managers. Their role is to ensure the customer realizes value from our platform and support the "land and expand" strategy versus delivering billable hours. Mix of Subscription and Professional Services Revenue. We believe our professional services have driven customer success and facilitated the adoption of our platform by customers. During the initial period of deployment by a customer, we generally provide a greater amount of support in building applications and training than later in the deployment, with a typical engagement extending from two to six months. At the same time, many of our customers have historically purchased subscriptions only for a limited set of their total potential end users. As a result of these factors, the proportion of total revenue for a customer associated with professional services is relatively high during the initial deployment period. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect subscriptions revenue as a percentage of total revenue to increase. In addition, we intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they sign. As the usage of partners expands, we expect the proportion of our total revenue from subscriptions to increase over time relative to professional services. As of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, 64.0% and 57.3% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales of subscriptions while the remaining 36.0% and 42.7%, respectively, was derived from the sale of professional services. 26 Investments in Growth. We have made and plan to continue to make investments for long-term growth, including investment in our platform and infrastructure to continuously maximize the power and simplicity of the platform to meet the evolving needs of our customers and to take advantage of our market opportunity. In addition, we continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that enhance our product offerings as evidenced by our recent acquisition of Novayre. We also intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing as we further expand our sales teams, increase our marketing activities, and grow our international operations. Key Metrics We monitor the following metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations. All dollar amounts are presented in thousands. Cloud Subscription Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Cloud subscription revenue $ 28,390 $ 21,278 Cloud subscription revenue is a portion of our revenue and includes SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services. As we generally sell our SaaS subscriptions on a per-user basis, our cloud subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of users who access and utilize the applications built on our platform as well as the price paid. We believe increasing cloud subscription revenue is an indicator of the demand for our platform, the pace at which the market for our solutions is growing, the productivity of our sales force and strategic relationships in growing our customer base, and our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base. Cloud Subscription Revenue Retention Rate As of March 31, 2020 2019 Cloud subscription revenue retention rate 115 % 126 % A key factor to our success is the renewal and expansion of subscription agreements with our existing customers. We calculate this metric over a set of customers who have been with us for at least one full year. To calculate our cloud subscription revenue retention rate for a particular trailing 12-month period, we first establish the recurring cloud subscription revenue for the previous trailing 12-month period. This effectively represents recurring dollars we should expect in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period without any expansion or contraction. We subsequently measure the recurring cloud subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period from the cohort of customers from the previous trailing 12-month period. Cloud subscription revenue retention rate is then calculated by dividing the aggregate recurring cloud subscription revenue in the current trailing 12-month period by the previous trailing 12-month period. This calculation includes the impact on our revenue from customer non-renewals, pricing changes, and growth in the number of users on our platform. Our cloud subscription revenue retention rate can fluctuate from period to period due to large customer contracts in any given period. The cloud subscription revenue retention rate as of March 31, 2019 was elevated as we focused on converting customers with on-premises term license subscriptions to cloud subscriptions. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily through sales of subscriptions to our platform as well as professional services. We generally sell our software on a per-user basis and, to a lesser degree, non-user based single application licenses. We generally bill customers and collect payment for subscriptions to our platform in advance on an annual, quarterly, or monthly basis. In certain instances, we have had customers pay their entire contract value up front. Our revenue is comprised of the following: 27 Subscriptions Subscriptions revenue is primarily derived from: SaaS subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support and hosting services; and On-premises term license subscriptions bundled with maintenance and support. Our maintenance and support agreements provide customers with the right to unspecified software upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the maintenance and support agreement on a when-and-if-available basis, and rights to technical support. When our platform is deployed within a customers own data center or private cloud, it is installed on the customers infrastructure and generally offered as a term license. When our platform is delivered as a SaaS subscription, we handle its operational needs in third-party hosted data centers. Professional Services Our professional services revenue is comprised of fees for consulting services, including application development and deployment assistance and training related to our platform. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of end users increases, we expect professional services revenue as percentage of total revenue to decrease. Additionally, if there is a decline in our procurement of new customers as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may also see a similar decline in professional services revenue. We have several strategic partnerships, including with KPMG, PwC, Accenture, and Deloitte. Our agreements with our strategic partners have indefinite terms and may be terminated for convenience by either party. We intend to further grow our base of strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. These partners refer software subscription customers to us and generally perform professional services with respect to any new service contracts they originate, increasing our subscriptions revenue without any change to our professional services revenue. As we expand the network of strategic partners, we expect professional services revenue to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time since our strategic partners may perform professional services associated with software subscriptions that we sell. Cost of Revenue Subscriptions Cost of subscriptions revenue consists primarily of fees paid to our third-party managed hosting providers and other third-party service providers, personnel costs, including payroll and benefits for our technology operations and customer support teams, and allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect cost of revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. Professional Services Cost of professional services revenue includes all direct and indirect costs to deliver our professional services and training, including employee compensation for our global professional services and training personnel, travel costs, third-party contractor costs, and allocated facility costs and overhead as well as the costs of billable expenses such as travel and lodging. The unpredictability of the timing of entering into significant professional services agreements sold on a standalone basis may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Gross Margin Gross profit and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by various factors, including the mix of subscriptions revenue and professional services revenue. Subscription pricing, the costs associated with third-party hosting facilities, and the extent to which we expand our professional services to support future growth will impact our gross margins. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period based on the above factors. 28 Subscriptions Gross Margin. Subscriptions gross margin is primarily affected by the growth in our subscriptions revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, costs to support such revenue. We expect to continue to invest in customer support and SaaS operations to support the growth in the business, and the timing of those investments is expected to cause gross margins to fluctuate in the short term but improve over time. Professional Services Gross Margin. Professional services gross margin is affected by the growth in our professional services revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, the cost of our professional services organization as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. Professional services gross margin is impacted by the amount of services performed by subcontractors as opposed to internal resources. Our professional services gross margin is also impacted by the amount of services performed by partners as opposed to internal resources. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Salaries, bonuses, and other personnel-related costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. In general, our operating expenses are expected to continue to increase as we invest resources in growing our various teams. However, our hiring activity in the near term will likely be lower in comparison to prior periods as a result of cost controlling measures we are implementing in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, stock-based compensation, and other personnel costs related to sales teams. Additional expenses in this category include travel and entertainment, marketing and promotional events, marketing activities, subcontracting fees, and allocated facility costs and overhead. In order to continue to grow our business, geographical footprint, and brand awareness, we expect sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest to acquire new customers and further expand usage of our platform within our existing customer base. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs for our employees who develop and enhance our platform, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and other personnel costs. Also included are non-personnel costs such as subcontracting, consulting and professional fees to third party development resources, allocated facility costs, overhead, and depreciation and amortization costs. Our research and development efforts are focused on enhancing the speed and power of our software platform. We expect research and development expenses to continue to increase as they are critical to maintain and improve our quality of applications and our competitive position. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and other personnel costs for our administrative, legal, information technology, human resources, finance and accounting employees, and executives. Additional expenses included in this category are non-personnel costs such as travel-related expenses, contracting and professional fees, audit fees, tax services and legal fees, as well as insurance and other corporate expenses, along with allocated facility costs and overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our growth. Other Expense Other Expense (Income), Net 29 Other expense (income), net consists primarily of unrealized and realized gains and losses related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income on our cash and cash equivalents, and gains or losses on the disposal of property and equipment. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our finance leases and debt, unused credit facility fees, and commitment fees on our letters of credit. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Revenue Subscriptions $ 50,436 $ 34,557 Professional services 28,428 25,747 Total revenue 78,864 60,304 Cost of revenue Subscriptions (1) 5,383 3,585 Professional services (1) 18,736 20,481 Total cost of revenue 24,119 24,066 Gross profit 54,745 36,238 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 34,172 28,591 Research and development (1) 16,038 13,956 General and administrative (1) 13,141 9,016 Total operating expenses 63,351 51,563 Operating loss (8,606) (15,325) Other expense (income) Other expense (income), net 3,114 (302) Interest expense 143 71 Total other expense (income) 3,257 (231) Loss before income taxes (11,863) (15,094) Income tax (benefit) expense (194) 122 Net loss $ (11,669) $ (15,216) (1) Stock-based compensation as a component of these line items is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Cost of revenue Subscriptions $ 213 $ 154 Professional services 212 1,974 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 753 2,381 Research and development 553 2,115 General and administrative 1,745 601 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 3,476 $ 7,225 30 The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Revenue Subscriptions 64.0 % 57.3 % Professional services 36.0 42.7 Total revenue 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenue Subscriptions 6.8 5.9 Professional services 23.8 34.0 Total cost of revenue 30.6 39.9 Gross profit 69.4 60.1 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 43.3 47.4 Research and development 20.3 23.1 General and administrative 16.7 15.0 Total operating expenses 80.3 85.5 Operating loss (10.9) (25.4) Other expense (income) Other expense (income), net 3.9 (0.5) Interest expense 0.2 0.1 Total other expense (income) 4.1 (0.4) Loss before income taxes (15.0) (25.0) Income tax (benefit) expense (0.2) 0.2 Net loss (14.8) % (25.2) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue Subscriptions $ 50,436 $ 34,557 46.0 % Professional services 28,428 25,747 10.4 Total revenue $ 78,864 $ 60,304 30.8 % Total revenue increased $18.6 million, or 30.8%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 due to an increase in our subscriptions revenue of $15.9 million and an increase in our professional services revenue of $2.7 million. Of the increase in subscriptions revenue, $8.2 million, or 51.9%, was attributable to on-premise software revenue while $7.1 million, or 44.8%, was attributable to cloud subscription revenue. With respect to new versus existing customers, $9.5 million of the increase in revenue stemmed from expanded deployments and corresponding sales of additional subscriptions to existing customers while the remaining $6.3 million was the result of sales of subscriptions to new customers, $2.8 million of which related to a three year on-premise contract which closed in the quarter ended March 31, 2020. The increase in professional services revenue was due to $5.9 million in sales to new customers, offset by a $3.2 million decrease in revenue from existing customers. 31 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue Subscriptions $ 5,383 $ 3,585 50.2 % Professional services 18,736 20,481 (8.5) Total cost of revenue $ 24,119 $ 24,066 0.2 % Subscriptions gross margin 89.3 % 89.6 % Professional services gross margin 34.1 % 20.5 % Total gross margin 69.4 % 60.1 % Cost of revenue increased $0.1 million, or 0.2%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to a $1.0 million increase in other cost of revenue, a $0.9 million increase in professional services and product support personnel costs, and a $0.2 million increase in facility and overhead costs, largely offset by a $2.0 million decrease in contractor costs. The increase in other cost of revenue was due to increased hosting costs as sales of our cloud offering increased in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in professional services and product support staff personnel headcount of 22.2% from March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2020. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Contractor costs decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 because of a decrease in the usage of subcontractors for professional service engagements. Subscriptions gross margin decreased to 89.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 89.6% in the same period in 2019 due to increased hosting costs during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as sales of our cloud offering increased and became a larger proportion of our overall subscription revenue. Professional services gross margin increased to 34.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 20.5% in the same period in 2019 due to a decrease in the usage of subcontractors for professional services engagements, a $1.7 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense due to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to three of our co-founders during the three months ended March 31, 2019, and the timing of certain contracts which were delivered in 2019 but for which revenue was recognized in 2020. Due to the higher percentage of subscriptions revenue for the comparable periods, gross margin increased to 69.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 60.1% in the same period in 2019. Sales and Marketing Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 34,172 $ 28,591 19.5 % % of revenue 43.3 % 47.4 % Sales and marketing expense increased $5.6 million, or 19.5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to a $3.0 million increase in sales and marketing personnel costs, a $1.8 million increase in marketing costs, a $0.4 million increase in professional fees, and a $0.4 million increase in facility and overhead costs. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in sales and marketing personnel headcount by 6.6% from March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2020 and increased sales commissions driven by our revenue growth, partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense attributable to the vesting of restricted stock units granted to our co-founders which occurred in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Marketing costs increased due largely to costs incurred related to our annual user conference Appian World. Professional fees increased due to an increase in consulting fees to support our ongoing marketing events and activities. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. 32 Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 16,038 $ 13,956 14.9 % % of revenue 20.3 % 23.1 % Research and development expense increased $2.1 million, or 14.9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to a $1.9 million increase in research and development personnel costs and a $0.2 million increase in facility and overhead costs, partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in professional fees. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in research and development personnel headcount by 30.2% from March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2020. Facility and overhead costs increased slightly to support our personnel growth. Professional fees decreased due to a decrease in consulting fees to support the development and enhancement of our platform. General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expense $ 13,141 $ 9,016 45.8 % % of revenue 16.7 % 15.0 % General and administrative expense increased $4.1 million, or 45.8%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 due to a $2.4 million increase in general and administrative personnel costs, a $1.1 million increase in professional fees, and a $0.7 million increase in facility and overhead costs. Personnel costs increased due to an increase in general and administrative personnel headcount by 35.3% from March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2020 coupled with a $1.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2020 which was primarily attributable to a stock option to purchase 700,000 shares of our Class A common stock granted to our Chief Executive Officer in the second quarter of 2019. Professional fees increased due to the use of consulting services to support our back-office initiatives. Facility and overhead costs increased to support our personnel growth. Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Other expense (income), net $ 3,114 $ (302) *** % of revenue 3.9 % (0.5) % *** - Indicates a percentage that is not meaningful Other expense (income), net increased by $3.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to $3.5 million in foreign exchange losses in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $0.1 million in foreign exchange losses in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in foreign exchange losses was primarily due to currency fluctuations of the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Australian dollar, Singapore dollar, and Swedish krona versus the U.S. dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. 33 Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ 143 $ 71 *** % of revenue 0.2 % 0.1 % *** - Indicates a percentage that is not meaningful Interest expense increased by $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to commitment fees on the letter of credit outstanding. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had $149.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our line of credit, will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, particularly internationally, the introduction of new and enhanced products and functions as well as platform enhancements and professional services offerings, the level of market acceptance of our applications, spending we may incur on our new headquarters, and the global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business. In the event additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and investments and cash from operations are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked, or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We recently have, and in the future may continue to, invest or acquire stakes in complementary businesses, products, or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present binding agreements or commitments to enter into any such acquisitions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Cash used in operating activities (3,859) (4,123) Cash used in investing activities (6,340) (16,595) Cash provided by financing activities 313 1,073 Sources of Funds We have financed our operations in large part with equity and debt financing arrangements, including net proceeds of $77.8 million from our initial public offering in May 2017, net proceeds of $57.8 million from our underwritten public offering in August 2018, and net proceeds of $101.3 million from our underwritten public offering in September 2019, as well as through sales of subscriptions and professional services and borrowings under our credit facilities. We also financed $3.7 million of office furniture and fixtures and $0.8 million of computer hardware, both associated with the build out of our new headquarters. 34 In November 2017, we entered into a $20.0 million revolving line of credit with a lender. The facility matures in November 2022. We may elect whether amounts drawn on the revolving line of credit bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to either the LIBOR or the prime rate plus an additional interest rate margin that is determined by the availability of borrowings under the revolving line of credit. The additional interest rate margin will range from 2.00% to 2.50% in the case of LIBOR advances and from 1.00% to 1.50% in the case of prime rate advances. The revolving line of credit contains an unused facility fee in an amount between 0.15% and 0.25% of the average unused portion of the revolving line of credit, which is payable quarterly. The agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and requires us to maintain (1) an adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.35 and (ii) minimum adjusted EBITDA in the amounts and for the periods set forth in the agreement. Any amounts borrowed under the credit facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2020. As of March 31, 2020, we had not made any borrowings under this revolving line of credit, and we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.1 million in connection with securing our leased office space. Use of Funds Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and other working capital requirements. More recently, we have utilized cash to pay for the acquisition of an entity we believe is complementary to our business. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our uses of cash in 2020 included the acquisition of Novayre while cash uses in 2019 included the build out of our new headquarters, which included spend approximately $21.0 million above the $18.4 million tenant improvement allowance provided by the landlord for the build out, of which $4.5 million related to office furniture and fixtures and computer hardware that has been financed. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, substantially all of the $6.3 million of cash used in investing activities was related to the acquisition of Novayre. Historical Cash Flows Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash used in operating activities of $3.9 million consisted of a net loss of $11.7 million, offset by $5.2 million in adjustments for non-cash items and $2.6 million of cash provided by changes in working capital. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of stock-based compensation of $3.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.5 million, and bad debt expense of $0.2 million. The increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a $5.8 million decrease in accounts receivable stemming from increased cash collections during the three months ended March 31, 2020, a $1.2 million increase in operating lease liabilities, and a $0.5 million decrease in deferred commissions. These increases to working capital were partially offset by a $2.5 million decrease in deferred revenue as a result of decreased subscription sales, a $1.8 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses primarily due to the timing of payments, and a $0.4 million decrease in accrued compensation expense due largely to a decrease in employee reimbursable expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in operating activities of $4.1 million consisted of a net loss of $15.2 million, offset by $8.0 million in adjustments for non-cash items and $3.1 million of cash provided by changes in working capital. Adjustments for non-cash items consisted of stock-based compensation of $7.2 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million. The increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in working capital primarily consisted of a $1.9 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of increased subscription sales. There was also a $3.7 million increase in deferred rent, non-current as a result of taking initial possession of the second phase of our new headquarters in February 2019 and recording an additional lease incentive obligation. There was also a $1.6 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses primarily due to the timing of payments and a $1.3 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily due to a decrease in the non-trade receivable resulting from out tenant improvement allowance. Additionally, the $4.5 million of tenant improvement allowance reimbursements received during the three months ended March 31, 2019 are considered a source of cash in operating activities whereas the capital expenditures are recorded as cash used in investing activities. These increases were partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as well as the timing of billings and collections. There was also a $2.9 million increase in deferred commissions due to increased sales, a $1.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits primarily due to the payment of year-end bonuses, and a $0.1 million decrease in other current liabilities. 35 Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash used in investing activities was $6.3 million which was primarily the result of $6.1 million in payments, net of cash acquired, related to the acquisition of Novayre. In addition, there were approximately $0.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $16.6 million and related primarily to the build-out of our new headquarters and the purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.3 million, consisting of $0.7 million in proceeds received from stock option exercises partially offset by $0.4 million in principal payments on finance leases. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.1 million, consisting of proceeds received from stock option exercises. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We entered into a Second Amendment to Deed of Lease, or the Lease Second Amendment, with Tamares 7950 Owner LLC, or the Landlord, effective as of January 1, 2020. The Lease Second Amendment modified the Deed of Lease dated as of April 17, 2018, as amended on December 23, 2019, between us and Landlord, or the Lease, for our headquarters in McLean, Virginia. Under the Lease Second Amendment, we exercised an option to expand its lease to the fourth floor of the North Tower, or the Fourth Floor, adding approximately 34,158 square feet to the premises. We will commence occupancy of the Fourth Floor on the sooner of the completion of certain improvements to the Fourth Floor and October 14, 2020. The monthly base rent for the Fourth Floor will be $87,388 for the first 27 months of the lease term, subject to periodic increases thereafter. Other than as described above, as of March 31, 2020, there was no material change in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. We therefore believe we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risks that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates and judgments embedded in the consolidated financial statements for the periods presented include revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, and income taxes. While we continue to monitor the developments surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, we are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that would require us to update our estimates, assumptions, and judgments. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020. 36 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.