ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Our mission is to grow the mobile app ecosystem by enabling the success of mobile app developers. Our software solutions provide advanced tools for mobile app developers to grow their businesses by automating and optimizing the marketing and monetization of their apps. Our software, coupled with our deep industry knowledge and expertise, has allowed us to rapidly scale a successful and diversified portfolio of owned mobile apps. We have also accelerated our market penetration through an active acquisition and partnership strategy. Our scaled and integrated business model sits at the nexus of the mobile app ecosystem, which creates a durable competitive advantage that has fueled our clients success and our strong growth. Since our founding in 2011, we have been focused on building a software-based platform for mobile app developers to improve the marketing and monetization of their apps. Our founders, who are mobile app developers themselves, quickly realized the real impediment to success and growth in the mobile app ecosystem was a discovery and monetization problembreaking through the congested app stores to efficiently find users and successfully grow their business. Their first-hand experience with these developer challenges led to the development of our infrastructure and softwareAppLovin Core Technologies and AppLovin Software Platform. We capitalized on our success and understanding of the mobile app ecosystem by launching AppLovin Apps in 2018. Our Apps now consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 350 free-to-play mobile games across five genres, run by nineteen studios. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our revenue grew 4% year-over-year, from $603.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 to $625.4 million in the comparative period in 2022. We generated a net loss of $115.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and a net loss of $10.6 million in the comparative period in 2021. We generated Adjusted EBITDA of $276.2 million, and $131.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Additionally, our net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $31.7 million and $61.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Metrics for a definition of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our Business Model We collect revenue from our Software Platform and our Apps. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, Software Platform Revenue represented 19% of total revenue and Apps Revenue represented 81% of total revenue. As a result of the strategic review of our Apps portfolio, which we announced in our shareholder letter on May 11th, 2022 and which we discuss below, we have updated the presentation of our revenue and associated discussion within this filing to align with how our management reviews our revenue and financial performance. Software Platform Revenue We generate Software Platform Revenue from fees paid by mobile app advertisers who use our Software Platform to grow and monetize their apps. We are able to grow our Software Platform Revenue by improving our various software technologies. Software Platform clients include a wide variety of advertisers, from indie developer studios to some of the largest global internet platforms, such as Facebook and Google. While we have thousands of clients as of March 31, 2022, the vast majority of our revenue is derived from our Software Platform Enterprise Clients. See Key Metrics below for additional information on how we calculate Software Platform Enterprise Clients. We see multiple opportunities to gain new Software Platform clients, and to increase spend from existing clients, as we help them grow their businesses and make them more successful. 21 Table of contents Our Software Platform includes AppDiscovery, Adjust and MAX. Clients use AppDiscovery to automate, optimize, and manage their user acquisition investments. They set marketing and user growth goals, and AppDiscovery optimizes their ad spend in an effort to achieve their return on advertising spend targets and other marketing objectives. AppDiscovery comprises the vast majority of revenue from our Software Platform. Revenue is generated from our advertisers, typically on a performance-based, cost-per-install basis, and shared with our advertising publishers, typically on a cost per impression model. Our Software Platform Enterprise Clients had a Net Dollar-Based Retention Rate of approximately 137% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. 1 Software Platform clients use Adjust's SaaS mobile marketing platform to better understand their users' journey while allowing marketers to make smarter decisions through measurement, attribution and fraud prevention. Revenue from Adjust is primarily generated from an annual software subscription fee. Software Platform clients use MAX to optimize purchases of app advertising inventory. The Compass Analytics tool within MAX provides insights to manage against key performance indicators, understand the long-term value of users, and help manage profitability. Revenue from MAX is generated based on a percentage of client spend. As more developers move to in-app bidding monetization, we expect growth in the adoption of, and revenue from, MAX. Apps Revenue Apps Revenue is generated when a user of one of our Apps makes an in-app purchase ("IAP") ("Consumer Revenue") and when clients purchase the digital advertising inventory of our portfolio of Apps ("Business Revenue"). We are able to grow our Apps Revenue by adding more apps to our Apps portfolio and increasing engagement on our existing Apps. Our Apps are generally free-to-play mobile games and generate Consumer Revenue through IAPs. IAPs consist of virtual goods used to enhance gameplay, accelerate access to certain features or levels, and augment other mobile game progression opportunities for the user. IAPs drive more engagement and better economics from our Apps. The vast majority of our IAP revenue flows through two app stores, Apple App Store and Google Play, which charge us a standard commission on IAPs. Consumer Revenue represented 67% of total Apps Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had an average of 2.7 million Monthly Active Payers ("MAPs") across our portfolio of Apps. Over that period, we had an Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer ("ARPMAP") of $41. Leveraging the benefit of our integrated Platform and Apps, we see opportunities to grow our App-related revenue streams by increasing MAPs and expanding ARPMAP within existing games and through new game development, acquisitions and partnerships. See Key Metrics below for additional information on how we calculate MAPs and ARPMAP. Business clients that purchase advertising inventory from our Apps are able to target highly relevant users from our diverse and global portfolio of over 350 mobile games. Our clients leverage a broad set of high-performing mobile ad formats, including playable and rewarded video, and are able to match these ads with relevant users resulting in a better return on their advertising spend. By increasing the number of users and their engagement, as well as better matching ads with the appropriate target audience, we are able to increase our revenue from business clients that purchase advertising inventory from our Apps. Revenue from business clients related to our Apps is generated from ads purchased by advertisers, as well as from revenue-sharing agreements between some of our studios and a selection of third-party studios for which they publish and monetize games. Business Revenue represented 33% of total Apps Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022. 1 We measure Net Dollar-Based Retention Rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 for our Software Platform Enterprise Clients as current period revenue divided by prior period revenue. Prior period revenue is measured as revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from our Software Platform Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2021. Current period revenue is revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from Software Platform Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2021. See the section titled "Key Metrics--Update to our Key Metrics" below. 22 Table of contents Key Metrics We review the following key metrics on a regular basis in order to evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our performance, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Software Platform Enterprise Clients ("SPECs"). We focus on the number of Software Platform Enterprise Clients, which are third-party clients from whom we have collected greater than $31,250 of Software Platform revenue in the three months to a given date, equating to an annual run-rate of $125,000 in revenue. Software Platform Enterprise Clients generate the vast majority of our Business Revenue - Software Platform and Business Revenue - Software Platform growth. Revenue Per Software Platform Enterprise Client ("Revenue per SPEC") . We define Revenue per SPEC as (i) the total revenue derived from our Software Platform Enterprise Clients in a three-month period, divided by (ii) Software Platform Enterprise Clients as of the end of that same period. Revenue per SPEC shows how efficiently we are monetizing each SPEC. We expect to increase Revenue per SPEC over time as we enhance our Software Platform and Apps. The following table shows our Software Platform Enterprise Clients and Revenue per SPEC for the three months March 31, 2022 and 2021. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Software Platform Enterprise Clients 481 193 Revenue per SPEC (thousands) $ 553 $ 453 Update to our Key Metrics Beginning with the three months ended June 30, 2022, the revenue measurement period used to determine the number of SPECs in a period will be updated to include clients from whom we have collected greater than $125,000 in Software Platform revenue over the trailing 12 months. The current definition of SPEC includes third-party clients who had more than $31,250 in Software Platform revenue for the prior three months. We believe this change in revenue measurement period will provide additional information regarding the scale and growth of our more-mature clients. Going forward, when Net Dollar-Based Revenue Retention ("NDBRR") measures are provided, we will also calculate such measures using the updated definition of SPECs. The table below shows our SPEC and Revenue per SPEC as of March 31, 2022 and 2021 under the updated calculations. Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 SPEC (trailing 12 months) 447 156 Revenue per SPEC (trailing 12 months) (in thousands) $ 1,701 $ 1,544 Total Software Transaction Value ("TSTV"). Software Platform revenue is from third-party clients using our Software Platform to find new customers. We do not recognize revenue from our own spend on our Software Platform. Therefore, we use TSTV to measure the scale and growth rates of our Software Platform, as it reflects the total value on our Software Platform including our first-party studios as though they were stand-alone businesses. The following table shows our Total Software Transaction Value for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Total Software Transaction Value $ 185,640 $ 147,901 Monthly Active Payers ("MAPs"). We define a MAP as a unique mobile device active on one of our Apps in a month that completed at least one IAP during that time period. A consumer who makes IAPs within two separate Apps on the same mobile device in a monthly period will be counted as two MAPs. MAPs for a particular time period longer than one month are the average MAPs for each month during that period. We estimate the number of MAPs by aggregating certain data from third-party attribution partners. Some of our Apps do not utilize such third-party attribution partners, and therefore our MAPs figure for any period does not capture every user that completed an 23 Table of contents IAP on our Apps. We estimate that our counted MAPs generated approximately 97% of our Consumer Revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022, and as such, management believes that MAPs are still a useful metric to measure the engagement and monetization potential of our games. We expect to increase our MAPs over time as we increase the number of our Apps and enhance the engagement and monetization of our Apps. Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer ("ARPMAP"). We define ARPMAP as (i) the total Consumer Revenue derived from our Apps in a monthly period, divided by (ii) MAPs in that same period. ARPMAP for a particular time period longer than one month is the average ARPMAP for each month during that period. ARPMAP shows how efficiently we are monetizing each MAP. We expect to increase ARPMAP over time as we enhance the monetization of our Apps. The following table shows our Monthly Active Payers and Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Monthly Active Payers (millions) 2.7 3.1 Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer $ 41 $ 38 Our key metrics are not based on any standardized industry methodology and are not necessarily calculated in the same manner or comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Similarly, our key metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. The numbers that we use to calculate TSTV, MAP, and ARPMAP are based on internal data. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable judgments and estimates for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and engagement. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. Non-GAAP Financial Metrics Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA for a particular period as net income (loss) before interest expense and loss on settlement of debt, other (income) expense, net (excluding certain recurring items), provision for (benefit from) income taxes, amortization, depreciation and write-offs and as further adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related expense and transaction bonus, publisher bonuses, MoPub acquisition transition services, loss (gain) on extinguishments of acquisition related continent consideration, non-operating foreign exchange losses, lease modification and abandonment of leasehold improvements, and change in the fair value of contingent consideration. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the same period. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are key measures we use to assess our financial performance and are also used for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are helpful to investors, analysts, and other interested parties because they can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical financial periods. In addition, these measures are frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties to evaluate and assess performance. We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures and are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered as alternatives or substitutes to financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations that are necessary to run our business. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Furthermore, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations that are necessary to run our business. Thus, our Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. 24 Table of contents The following table provides our Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, and a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands. except percentages) Net loss $ (115,298) $ (10,575) Adjusted as follows: Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt 32,009 35,010 Other income, net 2 (2,417) (8,626) Benefit from income taxes (42,684) (3,180) Amortization, depreciation and write-offs 128,989 88,817 Non-operating foreign exchange gain (458) (1,281) Stock-based compensation 44,640 29,959 Acquisition-related expense 14,814 938 Publisher bonuses 3 209,635 MoPub acquisition transition services 4 6,999 Adjusted EBITDA $ 276,229 $ 131,062 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 44.2 % 21.7 % Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the future success of our business depends on many factors, including the factors described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address in order to continue to grow profitably while maintaining strong cash flow. Continue to invest in innovation We have made, and intend to continue to make, significant investments in our Core Technologies and Software Platform to enhance their effectiveness and value proposition for our clients. We expect that these investments will require spending on research and development, and acquisitions and partnerships related to technology components and products. We believe investments in our software, including AXON, AppDiscovery, Adjust and MAX, will further improve their effectiveness for developers. Our investments will also allow us to enter new mobile app sectors outside of gaming. While our investments in research and development and acquisitions and partnerships may not result in revenue in the near term, we believe these investments position us to increase our revenue over time. Retain and grow existing clients We rely on existing clients for a significant portion of our revenue. As we improve our Software Platform and Apps, we can attract additional spend from these clients. Our clients include indie studio developers and some of the largest mobile advertising platforms in the world. We believe there is significant room for us to further expand our relationships with these clients and increase their usage of our Software Platform. We have invested in targeted sales and account-based marketing efforts, including through Adjusts sales and marketing teams, to identify and showcase opportunities to clients and plan to continue to do so in the future. In the past, our clients have generally increased their usage of our Software Platform and Apps, and as a result, growth from existing clients has been a primary driver of our revenue growth. We must continue to retain our existing clients and expand their spend with us over time to continue to grow our revenue, increase profitability and drive greater cash flow. 2 Excludes recurring operational foreign exchange gains and losses. 3 In association with the MoPub acquisition, we incurred certain costs to incentivize publishers to migrate to our MAX mediation solution including existing publishers of MoPub as well as publishers on other competitor offerings, and to retain certain existing MAX publishers. These costs were reflected as a reduction to revenue in the period. We have not historically incurred significant publisher migration costs, nor do we currently intend to incur significant publisher migration costs in the future. As such, we have removed the impact of these costs from Adjusted EBITDA. 4 Reflects one-time transition services provided by Twitter to AppLovin. 25 Table of contents Add new clients globally Our future success depends in part on our ability to acquire new clients. We recently increased our focus on markets outside the United States to serve the needs of clients globally. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, only 43% of our revenue from Software Platform and Apps Business Revenue clients was generated from outside of the United States. We believe that the global opportunity is significant and will continue to expand as developers and advertisers outside the United States adopt our Software Platform and advertise on our Apps. We also see opportunities to acquire new clients outside of mobile gaming, as the capabilities of our Core Technologies and Software Platform are relevant to the broader mobile app ecosystem. We are investing in direct sales, product development, education, and other capabilities to drive increased awareness and adoption of our Software Platform and Apps, which investments may impact our profitability in the near term as we seek further scale. We must continue to acquire new clients to grow our revenue, increase profitability, and drive greater cash flow. Review of our AppLovin Apps portfolio Over the past several years, our Apps have been critical in providing first-party data and audiences for our Software Platform to enable us to test, design, and scale our technologies, Given the recent development of our technology, the current scale of our Software Platform, and the reach of our MAX solution, we believe we can reduce our reliance on the data from our Apps. Therefore, we are reviewing our Apps portfolio and its cost structure, focusing on how best to optimize each assets contribution to our overall financial performance. This review may result in the retention, restructure, or sale of certain assets, or no change to our Apps portfolio. We may also choose to make certain changes to optimize the cost structure of certain Apps rather than continuing to invest in revenue growth. We believe that our execution of this review, and our ability to optimize the contribution of our Apps portfolio, will affect our revenue growth, profitability, and cash flow. Continued execution of strategic acquisitions and partnerships We intend to continue to make strategic acquisitions and enter into strategic partnerships to grow our business. From the beginning of 2018 through March 31, 2022, we have invested over $2.5 billion in 28 strategic acquisitions and partnerships with mobile app developers and for technologies to enhance our Software Platform including the acquisition of MAX in 2018, Adjust in April 2021 and MoPub in January 2022. While we have a strong pipeline of strategic acquisition and partnership opportunities, we believe our future results of operations will be affected by our ability to continue to identify and execute such transactions that are accretive to our growth and profitability. Growth and structure of the mobile app ecosystem Our business and results of operations will be impacted by industry factors that drive overall performance of the mobile app ecosystem. The mobile app ecosystem has grown rapidly in recent years. We expect that any acceleration, or slowing, of this growth would affect our business and results of operations. In addition, even if the mobile app ecosystem continues to grow at its current rate, our ability to position ourselves within the market will impact our business and results of operations. Mobile app developers, including AppLovin, rely on third-party platforms, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play Store, among others, to distribute games, collect payments made for IAPs, and target users with relevant advertising. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. These third-party platforms have significant market power and discretion to set platform fees, select which apps to promote, and decide how much consumer information to provide to advertising networks that enable our Core Technologies and Software Platform to target users with personalized and relevant advertising and allocate marketing campaigns in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Any changes made in the policies of third-party platforms could drive rapid change across the mobile app ecosystem. For example, in April 2021, Apple started implementing its application tracking transparency framework that, among other things, requires users' opt-in consent for certain types of tracking. While this transparency framework has not had a significant impact on our overall business, it may in the future continue to have an impact on it, including the effectiveness of our advertising practices and/or our ability to efficiently generate revenue for our Apps. We rely in part on Identifier for Advertisers ("IDFA") to provide us with data that helps our Software Platform better market and monetize Apps. The IDFA and transparency changes may require us to engage in significant changes to our data collection practices, which may require our expenditure of substantial costs and resources, and to the extent we are unable to utilize IDFA or a similar offering, or if the transparency changes and any related opt-in or other requirements result in decreases in the availability or utility of data relating to Apps, our Software Platform may not be as effective, we may not be able to continue to efficiently generate revenue for our Apps, and our revenue and results of operations may be harmed. Additionally, Apple implemented new requirements for consumer disclosures regarding privacy and data processing practices in December 2020, which 26 Table of contents has resulted in increased compliance requirements and could result in decreased usage of our Apps. In February 2022, Google announced it planned to adopt restrictions to restrict tracking activity across Android devices. These or any similar changes to the policies of Apple or Google may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To date, these data privacy changes have had a relatively muted aggregate impact on our overall results of operations. New tools for developers, industry standards, and platforms may emerge in the future. We believe our focus on the mobile app ecosystem has allowed us to understand the needs of our clients and our relentless innovation has enabled us to quickly adapt to changes in the industry and pioneer new solutions. We must continue to innovate and stay ahead of developments in the mobile app ecosystem in order for our business to succeed and our results of operations to continue to improve. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting social distancing and shelter-in-place orders put in place around the world have caused widespread disruption in global economies, productivity, and financial markets and have altered the way in which we conduct our day-to-day business. Our Software Platform and Apps do not require physical interaction, thus, our ability to meet the needs of our clients and users has not been materially affected. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and the extent to which the pandemic may impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations in the future remains uncertain. See the section titled Risk FactorsThe COVID-19 pandemic and responses thereto across the globe have altered how individuals interact with each other and affected how we and our business partners are operating, and the extent to which this situation will impact our future results of operations remains uncertain for additional information. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We collect Software Platform Revenue from advertisers spending on our Software Platform. Software Platform Revenue is generated from our advertisers, typically on a performance-based, cost-per-install basis, then shared with our advertising publishers, typically on a cost per impression model. We generate Apps revenue from both consumers and business clients. Consumer Revenue is from consumer IAPs made by users within our Apps. Business Revenue is generated from advertisers that purchase advertising inventory from our diverse portfolio of Apps. Business Revenue from our Apps was 33% of total Apps Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of third-party payment processing fees for distribution partners, amortization of acquired technology-related intangible assets, and expenses associated with operating our network infrastructure. Third-party payment processing fees relate to Consumer Revenue. The fees for IAPs are processed and collected by third-party distribution partners. Network operating costs include bandwidth, energy, other equipment costs related to our co-located data centers and costs for third-party cloud service providers. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars over the long term as our business and revenue continue to grow. We also expect our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of user acquisition costs, other advertising expenses, personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in sales and marketing, and amortization of acquired user-related intangible assets, marketing programs, travel, customer service costs, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our customer base and increase brand awareness. As a result, we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to grow our customer base and increase brand awareness, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of product development costs, including personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in research and development, professional services costs related to development of new apps by third parties, consulting costs, regulatory compliance costs, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. 27 Table of contents We plan to continue to invest in research and development to continue to enhance our Core Technologies and Software Platform, and to improve existing games and develop new games. As a result, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to enhance our Core Technologies and Software Platform and improve our existing Apps and develop new Apps, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of costs incurred to support our business, including personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in finance, accounting, legal, human resources and administration, professional services fees for legal, accounting, recruiting, and administrative services (including acquisition-related expenses), insurance, travel, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. We plan to continue to invest in our general and administrative function to support the growth of our business. In addition, we expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance and reporting obligations of a public company, increased insurance and investor relations expenses, and increased professional services fees (including acquisition-related expenses). As a result, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to support the growth of our business, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. Other Income and Expenses Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt. Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt consists primarily of loss related to debt extinguishment, interest expense associated with our outstanding debt, including accretion of debt discount, and changes in fair value of interest rate swap accounted for as a cash flow hedge related to the stream of variable interest payments associated with a portion of our outstanding debt. Other income, net. Other income, net, includes interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, gains and losses related to embedded derivatives and other financial instruments accounted for at fair value, and foreign currency exchange gains (losses), which consist primarily of remeasurement of transactions and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at the end of the period. Benefit from income taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, impacts from acquisition restructuring, deduction benefits related to foreign-derived intangible income, future changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. Additionally, our effective tax rate can vary based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. 28 Table of contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue $ 625,421 $ 603,877 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (1)(2) 281,780 223,061 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 290,133 265,513 Research and development (1) 126,250 60,876 General and administrative (1) 55,245 42,962 Total costs and expenses 753,408 592,412 Income (loss) from operations (127,987) 11,465 Other income (expense): Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt (32,009) (35,010) Other income, net 2,014 9,790 Total other expense (29,995) (25,220) Loss before income taxes (157,982) (13,755) Benefit from income taxes (42,684) (3,180) Net loss $ (115,298) $ (10,575) __________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,052 $ 109 Sales and marketing 6,919 1,819 Research and development 20,629 6,465 General and administrative 16,040 21,566 Total stock-based compensation $ 44,640 $ 29,959 29 Table of contents (2) Includes amortization expense related to acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 104,619 $ 82,185 Sales and marketing 16,392 3,209 Total amortization expense related to acquired intangibles $ 121,011 $ 85,394 The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue (1) : Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 45 % 37 % Sales and marketing 46 % 44 % Research and development 20 % 10 % General and administrative 9 % 7 % Total costs and expenses 120 % 98 % Income (loss) from operations (20) % 2 % Other income (expense): Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt (5) % (6) % Other income, net 0 % 2 % Total other expense (5) % (4) % Loss before income taxes (25) % (2) % Benefit from income taxes (7) % (1) % Net loss (18) % (2) % _________________ (1) Totals of percentages of revenue may not foot due to rounding. 30 Table of contents Comparison of Our Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Software Platform Revenue $ 118,840 $ 88,419 34 % Consumer Revenue 339,472 358,495 (5) % Business Revenue 167,109 156,963 6 % Apps Revenue 506,581 515,458 (2) % Total Revenue $ 625,421 $ 603,877 4 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Total revenue increased by $21.5 million, or 4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period due to increases in Software Platform Revenue of 34% and Business Revenue of 6%, partially offset by a decline in Consumer Revenue of 5%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our Software Platform Revenue increased by $30.4 million from the prior year period primarily due to AppDiscovery where installations increased 45% and price per installation increased 113% compared to the prior year period, as well as the contribution from MoPub and Adjust, partially offset by publisher bonuses of $209.6 million, which are accounted for as a reduction to revenue since the publishers receiving such bonuses are also our customers. Usage of advertising inventory by our Owned Studios and Partner Studios represented 15% of installations during the three months ended March 31, 2022. We do not recognize Software Platform Revenue from transactions with our Owned Studios and Partner Studios. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our Apps Revenue decreased by $8.9 million from the prior year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our Consumer Revenue decreased by $19.0 million from the prior year period, primarily due to a 12% decrease in the volume of in-app purchases, partially offset by a 8% increase in price per in-app purchase. Existing and newly developed Apps by our Owned and Partner Studios contributed $116.4 million of the decrease, while Apps acquired since March 31, 2021 generated a partially offsetting increase of $97.4 million. The increase in our Business Revenue from Apps of $10.1 million was primarily a result of increased advertising revenue from acquired Apps which contributed an increase of $25.5 million partially offset by a net decrease of $15.4 million from existing and newly developed Apps by our Owned and Partner Studios. Our Business Revenue from Apps grew due to a 11% increase in the volume of advertising impressions partially offset by a 4% decrease in price per advertising impression compared to the prior year period. We do not recognize Business Revenue from transactions with our Owned Studios and Partner Studios. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 281,780 $ 223,061 26 % Percentage of revenue 45 % 37 % Cost of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $58.7 million, or 26%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to an increase of $27.3 million in depreciation and amortization of acquired-technology driven by an increase in acquisition activity subsequent to the prior year period, an increase of $26.9 million in expenses associated with operating our network infrastructure driven by the growth in our operations and an increase of $5.6 million in professional services to support our network infrastructure, partially offset by a decrease of $9.0 million in third-party payment processing fees paid associated with in-app purchases. 31 Table of contents Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 290,133 $ 265,513 9 % Percentage of revenue 46 % 44 % Sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $24.6 million, or 9%, compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase of $15.1 million in personnel-related expenses related to an increase in stock-based compensation as a result of higher grant date fair value of our common stock and an increase in headcount, an increase of $13.2 million in depreciation and amortization of intangible assets driven by an increase in acquisition activity, and an increase of $9.3 million in professional services costs, offset by a $15.8 million decrease in user acquisition costs. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 126,250 $ 60,876 107 % Percentage of revenue 20 % 10 % Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $65.4 million, or 107%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in the three months was primarily due to an increase of $39.0 million in professional services costs related to development of new apps by third parties and an increase of $24.7 million in personnel-related expenses related to an increase in stock-based compensation as a result of higher grant date fair value of our common stock and an increase in headcount. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 55,245 $ 42,962 29 % Percentage of revenue 9 % 7 % General and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $12.3 million, or 29%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in the three months was primarily due to an increase of $12.7 million in acquisition-related stamp duty and an increase of $3.9 million in professional services costs primarily associated with audit, tax and legal support, offset by a decrease of $7.4 million in personnel-related expenses primarily related to executive bonus and stock-based compensation expense in the prior year period. Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt $ (32,009) $ (35,010) (9) % Percentage of revenue (5) % (6) % In the three months ended March 31, 2022, interest expense and loss on settlement of debt decreased by $3.0 million, or 9% compared to the same period in the prior year. This decrease was primary due to a loss on the settlement of term loans of $16.9 million during the prior year period, offset by an increase of $12.3 million in interest expense related to an increase in the term loans balance. 32 Table of contents Other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Other income, net $ 2,014 $ 9,790 (79) % Percentage of revenue % 2 % In the three months ended March 31, 2022, other income, net decreased by $7.8 million, or 79%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a fair value remeasurement gain of $6.6 million related to term loan embedded derivative in the prior year period. Benefit from Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 to 2022 % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Benefit from income taxes $ (42,684) $ (3,180) 1,242 % Percentage of revenue (7) % (1) % In the three months ended March 31, 2022, benefit from income taxes increased by $39.5 million or 1,242% compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in tax benefit was driven by an increase of $34.9 million due to higher pre-tax loss during the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $21.6 million due to stock-based compensation expense, an increase of $21.3 million due to global intangible low-taxed income, an increase of $17.9 million due to valuation allowance, and an increase of $4.2 million due to foreign income taxed at different rates, partially offset by a decrease of $48.9 million due to foreign derived intangible income deduction, $9.5 million due to research and development credit, and $3.9 million due to foreign income inclusion. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we financed our operations primarily through payments received from clients using our Software Platform and advertising on our Apps, and from user IAPs from our Apps, and through net proceeds we received from the sales of our convertible preferred stock and borrowings made under our Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.41 billion. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents would be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; expansion of sales and marketing activities; timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to purchase hardware and software; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. If additional financing from outside sources is required, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (31,719) $ 61,819 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,059,743) $ (18,273) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (65,424) $ 400,374 Operating Activities 33 Table of contents Net cash used in operating activities was $31.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily consisting of $115.3 million of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which included $129.0 million of amortization, depreciation and write-offs, $44.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $5.8 million of change in operating right of use asset, $3.2 million of amortization of debt issuance costs and discount and $1.0 million of net unrealized losses on fair value remeasurements, partially offset by a net increase in the operating assets and liabilities of $99.5 million. The net increase in the operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets and decrease in operating lease liabilities partially offset by higher accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $61.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $10.6 million of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which included $88.8 million of amortization, depreciation and write-offs, $30.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $16.9 million of loss on settlement of debt, $11.2 million of net unrealized gains on fair value remeasurements, $5.8 million of change in operating right of use asset, and $4.3 million of amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, partially offset by a net increase in the operating assets and liabilities of $60.8 million. The net increase in the operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and a decrease in operating lease liabilities partially offset by higher accounts payable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.06 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily consisting of $1.05 billion related to acquisitions and $14.1 million in purchases of non-marketable investments and other, partially offset by $2.2 million in proceeds from other investing activity. Net cash used in investing activities was $18.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $14.0 million in purchases of non-marketable investments and other and $4.2 million related to acquisitions. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $65.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily consisting of repurchases of stock under the repurchase program of $43.7 million, payments for license asset obligations of $17.4 million, payments for finance leases of $6.2 million, repayments of debt principal of $4.6 million, and payments for deferred acquisition costs of $1.7 million, partially offset by $8.1 million proceeds from exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities was $400.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $844.7 million of proceeds from debt issuance and $12.9 million proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by repayments of debt principal of $302.3 million, payments for deferred acquisition costs of $152.2 million and payments of deferred IPO costs of $1.8 million. Credit Agreement We are party to a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), which provides for senior secured term loans and a revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2022, our total outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement was $3.27 billion, consisting of outstanding term loans. Contractual Obligations On February 23, 2022 we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Wurl, Inc., a software platform company in the Connected TV ("CTV") market. We completed the acquisition in April 2022 for a total purchase price of approximately $379.0 million, consisting of $220.0 million in cash, 2,579,692 shares of our Class A common stock valued at $137.0 million and a liability of $22.0 million representing the present value of an indemnity holdback amount of $23.0 million to be paid in 18 months following the closing of the transaction. Concurrent with entering into the definitive agreement, we also adopted a multi-year performance-based incentive plan for certain key employees of Wurl, under which the key employees may earn up to a total of $600.0 million in additional shares of our Class A common stock through 2025, contingent upon the achievement of certain revenue and other performance targets by the acquired business and the continued employment of such key employees. Such plan became effective at the closing of the transaction. In the first quarter of 2022, we invested or committed to invest in certain private equity funds with total unfunded commitments of $44.1 million as of March 31, 2022. 34 Table of contents With the exception of the transactions described above and except for scheduled payments from the ongoing business, there were no material changes in our commitments under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to those disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 35 Table of contents