Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Income Taxes and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 11 Table of Contents Applieds People Applieds commitment to innovation begins with the commitment to creating an environment in which Applieds employees can do their best work. Applieds ability to create differentiated value in the marketplace is driven by the capability of the Companys people to anticipate technology inflections and integrate customer requirements. To achieve this level of value creation, Applied believes it must attract, hire, develop and retain a world-class global workforce. The Company invests in its employees by providing quality training and learning opportunities; promoting inclusion, equity and diversity; and upholding a high standard of ethics and respect for human rights. As of October 30, 2022, Applied employed approximately 33,000 regular full-time employees, of whom approximately 46%, 42% and 12% resided in the Asia-Pacific region, North America, and Europe, Middle East and Africa, respectively. Applieds team spans 24 countries, reflecting various cultures, backgrounds, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, ages, and disability, veteran and military status. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Applied values great talent and different perspectives, knowing that diversity is one of its greatest strengths. The Company therefore strives to provide fair and equal opportunity for career development and advancement to all its employees and incorporates respect for diverse backgrounds and perspectives into the Companys culture at every level from strategy and policy down to everyday interactions. Applied expects that its commitment to strengthening the Companys culture of inclusion will broaden the diversity of its workplace and help Applied build a culture that benefits everyone. In recent years, Applied continued to make progress in its culture of inclusion journey, including, among other things, expanding gender diversity on the Companys Board to 40% female membership, increasing female representation in the U.S. and global workforce, and increasing U.S. underrepresented minority representation. As of October 30, 2022, Applieds global workforce was 80.6% male and 19.4% female, and 19% of Applieds workforce in the United States was composed of underrepresented minorities. Additionally, Applied is investing in inclusion learning experiences. For example, the Company has various initiatives to further develop its leaders to lead even more inclusively and further deepen engagement with employees. Talent Acquisition and Retention Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon the Companys continued ability to attract, develop, retain and engage employees. As part of the Companys effort to attract and retain employees, Applied offers competitive rewards, compensation and benefits, including an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, healthcare and retirement benefits, parental and family leave, adoption credits, holiday and paid time off, and tuition assistance. Employee Learning & Development Applied seeks to create growth and development opportunities to support an engaged and inclusive workforce. Applied promotes holistic employee learning and development based on the 70/20/10 model--70% on-the-job learning, 20% social/collaborative and 10% formal training, with a focus on advancing technical skills as well as improving general business acumen to address increasing work complexity. Also, to help expand professional breadth, Applied uses a federated model where the segments and functions provide technical and job-specific training tied to their disciplines, while general professional, management, and leadership training is provided at the corporate level. All training is coordinated centrally and aligned with common objectives through Applied Global University. In addition to instructor-led and web-based training, Applied offers state-of-the-art training modalities, such as AI-based simulations and Augmented and Virtual Reality learning capabilities, to help develop its new products, train its manufacturing and field support employees, and collaborate remotely. Each fiscal year, employees are provided the opportunity to complete the required 40 hours of learning. Employee Engagement, Organizational Health and Pandemic Response Applied has historically managed and measured employee engagement and organizational health with a view to gaining insight into employees experiences, levels of workplace satisfaction, and feelings of engagement and inclusion. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Applieds top priority remains protecting the health and safety of its employees and their families, customers, suppliers and community. This includes an understanding of its employees engagement and experiences during the pandemic and developing a return to work and future of work strategy. In fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021, Applied conducted surveys focused on employee engagement and productivity and on the future of work. Applied continues to support workplace flexibility such as remote working where possible, and follow enhanced safety and health protocolsincluding screenings, social distancing, and use of personal protective equipment. In fiscal 2022, the focus of the employee survey was on engagement and identifying actionable insights to enable a segmented talent strategy to address engagement and retention in targeted employee populations (e.g., early tenure employees). 12 Table of Contents Additional information regarding Applieds activities related to its people and sustainability, as well as its workforce diversity data, can be found in Applieds latest Sustainability Report and Annex thereto, which are located on its website at https://www.appliedmaterials.com/us/en/corporate-responsibility.html. The Sustainability Report and the Annex thereto are updated annually. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applieds website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 13 Table of Contents Information about Applieds Executive Officers The following table and notes set forth information about Applieds executive officers: Name of Individual Position Gary E. Dickerson(1) President, Chief Executive Officer Brice Hill(2) Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Teri Little(3) Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Omkaram Nalamasu(4) Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Prabu Raja(5) Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group Timothy M. Deane (6) Group Vice President, Applied Global Services Jeff Bodner(7) Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (1) Mr. Dickerson, age 65, was named President of Applied in June 2012 and appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in September 2013. Before joining Applied, he served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) from 2004 until its acquisition by Applied in November 2011. Prior to Varian, Mr. Dickerson served 18 years with KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA-Tencor), a supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related industries, where he held a variety of operations and product development roles, including President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Dickerson started his semiconductor career in manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors Delco Electronics Division and then AT&T Technologies. (2) Mr. Hill, age 56, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2022. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Hill was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Xilinx, Inc., a company that designed and developed programmable devices and associated technologies, from April 2020 until its acquisition by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. in February 2022. Prior to Xilinx, Mr. Hill served in various finance positions with Intel Corporation for 25 years, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Technology, Systems and Core Engineering Group. (3) Ms. Little, age 58, joined Applied as Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in June 2020. Prior to joining Applied, Ms. Little served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary at KLA Corporation from August 2017 to June 2020. Prior to that she was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of KLA Corporation from October 2015 until August 2017, and prior to that she held various other positions at KLA Corporation since 2002. Prior to joining KLA Corporation, she was a Senior Corporate Associate at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, and a Litigation Associate at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe. (4) Dr. Nalamasu, age 64, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since June 2013, and President of Applied Ventures, LLC, Applieds venture capital arm, since November 2013. He had served as Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2012 to June 2013, and as Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2011 to January 2012. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 until January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was an Appointed Vice President of Research and served as Deputy Chief Technology Officer and General Manager for the Advanced Technologies Group. From 2002 to 2006, Dr. Nalamasu was a NYSTAR distinguished professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also served as Vice President of Research from 2005 to 2006. Prior to Rensselaer, Dr. Nalamasu served in several leadership roles at Bell Laboratories. (5) Dr. Raja, age 60, has been Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group of Applied since November 2017. He previously served in various senior management, product development and operational roles since joining Applied in 1995, including Group Vice President and General Manager of the Patterning and Packaging Group. (6) Mr. Deane, age 57, has been Group Vice President, Applied Global Services since September 2022. He joined Applied in 1995 and previously served in various senior management and field operations roles, including head of Field Operations and Business Management for the Semiconductor Products Group, Account General Manager and Region General Manager. (7) Mr. Bodner, age 54, has been Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Applied since September 2022. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Bodner served as Chief Accounting Officer since July 2021 and as Vice President, Accounting since April 2021 at ESS Tech, Inc., a company that designs, builds and deploys iron flow batteries for commercial and energy storage applications. Prior to joining ESS Tech, Mr. Bodner served for almost 17 years at Intel Corporation in a variety of finance leadership roles, including Vice President of Finance and Director of Internal Audit. Mr. Bodner also worked nearly 12 years at PwC in its assurance practice. 14 Table of Contents Available Information Applieds website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SECs website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are intended to be an inactive textual references only. None of the information on, or accessible through, these websites is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. Business and Industry Risks The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict. As a supplier to the global semiconductor and display and related industries, Applied is subject to variable industry conditions, since demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on several factors, including the nature and timing of technology inflections and advances in fabrication processes, the timing and requirements of new and emerging technologies and market drivers, production capacity relative to demand for chips and display technologies, end-user demand, customers capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, consumer buying patterns and general economic and political conditions. Applieds industries historically have been cyclical, and are subject to volatility and sudden changes in customer requirements for new manufacturing capacity and advanced technology. These changes can affect the timing and amounts of customer investments in technology and manufacturing equipment and can have a significant impact on Applieds net sales, operating expenses, gross margins and net income. The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on Applieds results of operations. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, during periods of decreasing demand, Applieds gross margins, cash flows and earnings may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy. Uncertain or adverse economic and business conditions, including uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt, fiscal or monetary concerns, rising inflation and interest rates in various regions, and economic recession, could materially adversely impact Applieds operating results. Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products. Uncertain or adverse economic and business conditions could result in decreases in consumer spending and demand. Such decreases in spending and demand have in the past caused, and may in the future cause, our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from purchasing our equipment or services, which could negatively impact demand for our products and services, reduce our backlog, increase our inventory, and materially adversely impact our operating results. Similarly, changes that result in sudden increases in consumer demand for electronic products have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a shortage of parts and materials needed to manufacture our products. Such shortages, as well as shipment delays due to transportation capacity and interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our suppliers ability to meet our demand requirements. Accelerated digital transformation may further increase consumer demand and exacerbate such shortages and also strain our manufacturing capacity, which may adversely impact our ability to meet customer demands and thus have an adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain or adverse economic and market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, increased costs or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales, additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect Applieds ability to manage operations and deliver its products. These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applieds ability to compete effectively. 16 Table of Contents Uncertain economic and industry conditions and continued supply chain disruptions also make it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. If Applied does not appropriately manage its business operations in response to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a significant negative impact on its business performance and financial condition. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applieds ability to capitalize on opportunities. Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Applied must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings. Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applieds investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate due to rising inflation, rising interest rates, economic recession or impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applieds ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Applied has product development, engineering, manufacturing, sales and other operations distributed throughout many countries, and some of its business activities are concentrated in certain geographic areas. Moreover, in fiscal 2022, approximately 88% of Applieds net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States. As a result of the global nature of its operations, Applieds business performance and results of operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: uncertain global economic and political business conditions and demands; global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade and export regulations, trade policies and sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes, including new and changing export regulations for certain exports to China and any retaliatory measures; positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national, commercial and/or security issues posed by the development, sale or export of certain products and technologies; political instability, natural disasters, regional or global health epidemics, social unrest, terrorism, acts of war or other geopolitical turmoil, or cybersecurity incidents in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales, or that may influence the value chain of the industries that Applied serves; political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; customer- or government-supported efforts to influence Applied to conduct more or less of its operations and sourcing in a particular country; variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations, including contract, intellectual property, cybersecurity, data privacy, labor, tax, and import/export laws, and the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; ineffective or inadequate legal protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries; interruptions to Applieds or its suppliers supply chain; the availability or increasing costs of raw material, commodity, energy and shipping or volatility in such costs; delays or restrictions on personnel travel and in shipping materials or finished products between and within countries; geographically diverse operations and projects, and our ability to maintain appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and comply with environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements; 17 Table of Contents failure to effectively manage a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, and differing employment practices and labor issues; variations in the ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, Israeli shekel, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Singapore dollar, Chinese yuan or Korean won; the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations around the world; performance of third-party providers of outsourced functions, including certain engineering, software development, manufacturing, information technology and other activities; service interruptions from utilities, transportation, data hosting or telecommunications providers, or other events beyond our control; impacts of climate change on the operations of Applied, its customers and suppliers; challenges in hiring and integration of an increasing number of workers in new countries; the increasing need for a mobile workforce to work in or travel to different regions; and uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries. Global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies and export regulations, including import and export license requirements, trade sanctions, tariffs and international trade disputes, have adversely impacted and could further adversely impact our business and operations, and reduce the competitiveness of our products relative to local and global competitors. We sell a significant majority of our products into jurisdictions outside of the United States including China, Taiwan, Japan and Korea. We also purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside of the United States. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among the United States and the countries in which we conduct our business, that political, diplomatic, and national security factors can lead to global trade issues and changes in trade policies and export regulations, in particular, with respect to those affecting the semiconductor industry. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose new trade restrictions and export regulations, and have also levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. Trade restrictions and export regulations, or increases in tariffs and additional taxes, including any retaliatory measures, can negatively impact end-user demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or prohibit our ability to sell products, provide services or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. For example, certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses, and our inability to obtain such licenses has limited and could further limit our markets and negatively impact our business. The U.S. government recently announced new export regulations for U.S. semiconductor technology sold in China, including wafer fabrication equipment and related parts and services, which have limited the market for certain of our products, adversely impacted our revenues, and increased our exposure to foreign competition. The U.S. Department of Commerce has promulgated rules and regulations expanding export license requirements for U.S. companies that sell certain products to entities in China whose actions or functions are intended to support military end uses, eliminated certain export license exceptions that applied to exports of certain items to China, added certain Chinese companies to its Entity List and Unverified List, making those companies subject to additional licensing requirements, and expanded licensing requirements for exports to China of items for use in the development or production of integrated circuits and certain technologies. These rules and regulations require us to obtain additional export licenses to supply certain of our products or provide services to certain customers in China. Obtaining export licenses may be difficult, costly and time-consuming, and there is no assurance that we will be issued licenses that we apply for on a timely basis or at all. Our inability to obtain such licenses could limit our markets in China, may cause us to be displaced by foreign businesses and competitors and adversely affect our results of operations. The implementation and interpretation of these rules and other regulatory actions taken by the U.S. government is uncertain and evolving, and may make it more challenging for Applied to manage its operations and forecast its operating results. The U.S. and other governmental agencies may in the future promulgate new or additional export licensing or other requirements that have the effect of further limiting the Companys ability to provide certain of its products and services to customers outside the U.S., including China. These and other regulatory changes that may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents As a global business with customers, suppliers and operations in many countries around the world, Applied may from time to time receive inquiries from government authorities about transactions between Applied and certain foreign entities. For example, in August 2022, Applied received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting information relating to certain China customer shipments. We are cooperating fully with the government. These inquiries are subject to uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry, or any other governmental inquires or proceedings that may occur. Any violation or alleged violation of law or regulations could result in significant legal costs or in legal proceedings in which Applied or its employees could be subjected to fines and penalties and could result in restrictions on Applieds business and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government authorities may take retaliatory actions, impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applieds business. Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent a significant portion of Applieds business. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated and has become increasingly so as a result of continued consolidation. Applieds customer base is also geographically concentrated, particularly in China, Taiwan and Korea. A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applieds business. As a result, the actions of even a single customer or export regulations that apply to customers in certain countries, such as those in China, have exposed and can further expose Applieds business and results of operations to greater volatility. The geographic concentration of Applieds customer base could shift over time as a result of government policy and incentives to develop regional semiconductor industries. The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, including as a result of changes in government policy, have varied and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on Applieds net sales, gross margins and net income. Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, and changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders (including as a result of uncertain or adverse economic conditions, our inability to fulfill orders due to export regulations, shortage of parts, transportation capacity/interruptions or any other reason), Applied may not be able to replace the business, which may have a significant adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of Applieds customer base increases its risks related to the financial condition of its customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material adverse effect on Applieds results of operations and cash flow. To the extent its customers experience liquidity constraints, Applied may incur bad debt expense, which may have a significant impact on its results of operations. Major customers may also seek pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied, which may have a negative impact on Applieds business, cash flow, revenue and gross margins. 19 Table of Contents Supply chain disruptions, manufacturing interruptions or delays, or the failure to accurately forecast customer demand, could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand, lead to higher costs, or result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applieds business depends on its timely supply of equipment, services and related products to meet the changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, materials and services, including components and subassemblies, from suppliers and contract manufacturers. Significant and sudden increases in demand for Applieds products, as well as worldwide demand for electronic products, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a shortage of parts, materials and services needed to manufacture Applieds products. Such shortages, as well as delays in and unpredictability of shipments due to transportation interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our suppliers ability to meet our demand requirements. Difficulties in obtaining sufficient and timely supply of parts, materials or services, and delays in and unpredictability of shipments due to transportation interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, Applieds manufacturing operations and its ability to meet customer demand. Moreover, lockdowns that may from time to time be imposed in various geographic regions in response to periodic spikes in COVID-19 cases and related travel and logistics restrictions may result in additional supply chain and transportation disruptions, production delays, capacity limitations and cost increases. Our operating results may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts, materials or services needed to manufacture Applieds products, or if we are unable to do so on a timely manner or on favorable terms. Ongoing supply chain constraints may continue to increase costs of logistics and parts for our products and may cause us to pass on increased costs to our customers. Such increase in costs may lead to reduced demand for our products and materially adversely impact our operating results. Some key parts are subject to long lead-times or available only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the countries where Applied conducts its manufacturing. Supply chain disruptions have caused and may continue to cause delays in our equipment production and delivery schedules, which can lead to our business performance becoming significantly dependent on quarter-end production and delivery schedules, and could have an adverse impact on our operating and financial results. Volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment can also increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for Applied and for companies throughout its supply chain, and may cause some suppliers to exit businesses, or scale back or cease operations, which could impact our ability to meet customer demand. Applied may also experience significant interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver or install products or services, increased costs, customer order cancellations or reduced demand for its products as a result of: global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade and export regulations, trade policies and sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes, including new and changing export regulations for certain exports to China, where a significant portion of Applieds supply chain is located, and any retaliatory measures, that adversely impact Applied or its direct or sub-tier suppliers; the failure or inability to accurately forecast demand and obtain sufficient quantities of quality parts on a cost-effective basis; volatility in the availability and cost of parts, commodities, energy and shipping related to our products, including increased costs due to rising inflation or interest rates or other market conditions; difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export licenses and approvals; shipment delays due to transportation interruptions or capacity constraints; a worldwide shortage of semiconductor components as a result of sharp increases in demand for semiconductor products in general; information technology or infrastructure failures, including those of a third party supplier or service provider; and natural disasters, the impacts of climate change, or other events beyond Applieds control (such as earthquakes, utility interruptions, tsunamis, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, storms or extreme weather conditions, fires, regional economic downturns, regional or global health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical turmoil, increased trade restrictions between the U.S. and China and other countries, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) in locations where it or its customers or suppliers have manufacturing, research, engineering or other operations. If a supplier fails to meet Applieds requirements concerning quality, cost, intellectual property protection, socially-responsible business practices, or other performance factors, Applied may transfer its business to alternative sources. Transferring business to alternative suppliers could result in manufacturing delays, additional costs or other difficulties, and may impair Applieds ability to protect, enforce and extract the full value of its intellectual property rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of its customers and other third parties. These outcomes could have an adverse impact on its business and competitive position and subject Applied to legal proceedings and claims. In addition, if Applied is unable to meet its customers demand for a prolonged period due to its inability to obtain certain parts or components from suppliers on a timely basis or at all, its business, results of operations and customer relationships could be adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents In addition, if Applied needs to rapidly increase its business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this may strain Applieds manufacturing and supply chain operations, and negatively impact Applieds working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for Applieds products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more or fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If Applied purchases or commits to purchase inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or such inventory is rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, Applied may incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. The continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and global measures taken in response have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, Applieds operations and financial results. The continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response by governments and businesses worldwide to contain its spread have adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact Applieds supply chain, manufacturing, logistics, workforce and operations, as well as the operations of Applieds customers, suppliers and partners globally. There is continued uncertainty regarding the duration, scope and severity of the pandemic, particularly with the emergence of new variants of COVID-19 and periodic spikes in COVID-19 cases in various geographic regions, and the impacts on our business and the global economy from the effects of the pandemic and response measures. Travel and logistics restrictions, lockdowns, vaccine requirements and other measures from time to time implemented by foreign and domestic authorities have resulted in, and may continue to result in, supply chain and transportation disruptions, production delays and capacity limitations at Applied and some of its customers, suppliers and partners, as well as reduced workforce availability or productivity at Applied and customer sites, and additional data, information and cyber security risks associated with an extensive workforce working remotely. As economic activity and business operations in certain regions recover, there have been and may continue to be periods of significant or sudden increases in demand for Applieds products, as well as worldwide demand for electronic products. Significant or sudden demand increases have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a shortage of parts, materials or services needed to manufacture Applieds products. We have also experienced, and may continue to experience, shipment delays due to transportation interruptions or capacity constraints. Such shortages or delays have adversely impacted, and could continue to adversely impact, our suppliers ability to meet our demand requirements and do so on favorable terms, and our ability to meet our customer demand. There can be no assurance that Applied or its suppliers will be able to maintain manufacturing operations at levels necessary to adequately address demand for Applied products. In addition, the pandemic and measures taken in response thereto have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on the global economic activity and could also result in a reduced demand for our products, delayed deliveries or installation, cancelled orders or increase in logistics and operating costs, and materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations and the global economy will depend on future developments beyond our control, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including the severity, duration and any resurgence of the pandemic, the extent, duration and effectiveness of periodic lockdowns and other containment actions, the availability, public adoption and efficacy of COVID vaccines, how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating activity can resume, and the severity and duration of resulting global economic volatility. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, display and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds products and its consolidated results of operations, including: the nature, timing and degree of visibility of changes in end demand for electronic products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to general economic conditions, seasonality or the introduction of new products, and the effects of these changes on customers businesses and on demand for Applieds products; increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and customers ability to raise the necessary capital; trade, regulatory, tax or government incentive policies impacting the timing of customers investment in new or expanded fabrication plants; differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and other industries in which Applied operates; the increasing importance of establishing, improving and maintaining strong relationships with customers; the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the adoption rate of new manufacturing technology; the need for customers to continually reduce the total cost of manufacturing system ownership; 21 Table of Contents the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use fabrication systems which can reduce demand for new equipment; the increasing importance of, and difficulties in, developing products with sufficient differentiation to influence customers purchasing decisions; requirements for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment; price and performance trends for semiconductor devices and displays, and the corresponding effect on demand for such products; the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to maximize the time that customers systems are available for production; increasing government incentives for local suppliers; the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied products; and the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest proportion of Applieds consolidated net sales and profitability is derived from sales of manufacturing equipment in the Semiconductor Systems segment to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds semiconductor manufacturing equipment and service products, including: the increasing frequency and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applieds ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the increasing cost of research and development due to many factors, including shrinking geometries, the use of new materials, new and more complex device structures, more applications and process steps, increasing chip design costs, and the increasing cost and complexity of integrated manufacturing processes; the need to reduce product development time, despite the increasing difficulty of technical challenges; the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and number of applications across multiple substrate sizes; the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and smaller geometries to volume manufacturing, and the resulting impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in capital equipment; challenges in generating organic growth given semiconductor manufacturers levels of capital expenditures and the allocation of capital investment to market segments that Applied does not serve, such as lithography, or segments where Applieds products have lower relative market presence; customer investment in semiconductor manufacturing capabilities in China, which has been affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental regulations, including trade policies and export regulations; the importance of increasing market positions in segments with growing demand; semiconductor manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use equipment, resulting in diminished need to purchase new equipment and services from us, and challenges in providing parts for reused equipment; shorter cycle times between order placements by customers and product shipment require greater reliance on forecasting of customer investment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin; competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance position, including challenges in securing development-tool-of-record (DTOR) and production-tool-of-record (PTOR) positions with customers; consolidation in the semiconductor industry, including among semiconductor manufacturers and among manufacturing equipment suppliers; shifts in sourcing strategies by computer and electronics companies, and manufacturing processes for advanced circuit technologies, that impact the equipment requirements of Applieds foundry customers; 22 Table of Contents the concentration of new wafer starts in Korea and Taiwan, where Applieds service penetration and service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other regions; the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products; and the growing importance of specialty markets (such as Internet of Things, communications, automotive, power and sensors) that use mature process technologies and have a low barrier to entry. If Applied does not accurately forecast and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry. The global display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, production capacity relative to end-use demand, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs, and on demand for advanced smartphones and mobile device displays, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds display products and services, including: the importance of new types of display technologies, such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED), low temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide transistor backplanes, flexible displays, and new touch panel films; the increasing cost of research and development, and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applieds ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the timing and extent of an expansion of manufacturing facilities in China, which may be affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental regulations, including trade policies and export regulations; the importance of increasing market positions in products and technologies with growing demand; the rate of transition to larger substrate sizes for TVs and to new display technologies for TVs, information technology products and mobile applications, and the resulting effect on capital intensity in the industry and on Applieds product differentiation, gross margin and return on investment; and fluctuations in customer spending quarter over quarter and year over year for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers. If Applied does not successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new and emerging display technologies, or if industry demand for display manufacturing equipment and technologies slows, Applieds business and its results of operations may be adversely impacted. The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes. Applied operates in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, and its future success depends on many factors, including the development of new technologies and effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products, and its ability to increase its position in its current markets, expand into adjacent and new markets, and optimize operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in a geographically diverse and competitive environment, and that may require greater collaboration with customers and other industry participants, have grown more complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs, longer development cycles, lower profits and may have unforeseen product design or manufacturing defects. To compete successfully, Applied must: identify and address technology inflections, market changes, competitor innovations, new applications, customer requirements and end-use demand in a timely and effective manner; develop new products and disruptive technologies, improve and develop new applications for existing products, and adapt products for use by customers in different applications and markets with varying technical requirements; differentiate its products from those of competitors, meet customers performance specifications (including those related to energy consumption and environmental impact more broadly), appropriately price products, and achieve market acceptance; 23 Table of Contents maintain operating flexibility to enable responses to changing markets, applications, customers and customer requirements; enhance its worldwide operations across its businesses to reduce cycle time, enable continuous quality improvement, reduce costs, and enhance design for manufacturability and serviceability; focus on product development and sales and marketing strategies that address customers high value problems and strengthen customer relationships; effectively allocate resources between its existing products and markets, the development of new products, and expanding into new and adjacent markets; improve the productivity of capital invested in R&D activities; accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet production schedules for its products; improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; qualify products for evaluation and volume manufacturing with its customers; and implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management. If Applied does not successfully anticipate technology inflections, develop and commercialize new products and technologies, and respond to changes in customer requirements and market trends, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries. As part of its growth strategy, Applied seeks to expand into related or new markets and industries, either with its existing products or with new products developed internally, or those developed in collaboration with third parties, or obtained through acquisitions. Applieds ability to successfully expand its business into new and related markets and industries may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the need to devote additional resources to develop new products for, and operate in, new markets; the need to develop new sales and technical marketing strategies, cultivate relationships with new customers and meet different customer service requirements; differing rates of profitability and growth among multiple businesses; Applieds ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks; the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations in production planning, execution, supply chain management and logistics; the adoption of new business models, business processes and systems; the complexity of entering into and effectively managing strategic alliances or partnering opportunities; new materials, processes and technologies; the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas; new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain or limited funding, evolving business models or locations in regions where Applied does not have, or has limited, operations; new or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources, industry experience and established customer relationships; entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business, employment and safety practices and requirements; third parties intellectual property rights; and the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry standards and practices. In addition, Applied from time to time receives funding from United States and other government agencies for certain strategic development programs to increase its research and development resources and address new market opportunities. As a condition to this government funding, Applied is often subject to certain record-keeping, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing, and/or other obligations. 24 Table of Contents Operational and Financial Risks Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights. Applieds success depends in significant part on the protection of its technology using patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Infringement or misappropriation of Applieds intellectual property rights, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Monitoring and detecting any unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and costly and Applied cannot be certain that the protective measures it has implemented will completely prevent misuse. Applieds ability to enforce its intellectual property rights is subject to litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the protection and enforceability of those rights in some countries. If Applied seeks to enforce its intellectual property rights, it may be subject to claims that those rights are invalid or unenforceable, and others may seek counterclaims against Applied, which could have a negative impact on its business. If Applied is unable to enforce and protect intellectual property rights, or if they are circumvented, rendered obsolete or invalidated by the rapid pace of technological change, or stolen or misappropriated by employees or third parties, it could have an adverse impact on its competitive position and business. In addition, changes in intellectual property laws or their interpretation may impact Applieds ability to protect and assert its intellectual property rights, increase costs and uncertainties in the prosecution of patent applications or related enforcement actions, and diminish the value and competitive advantage conferred by Applieds intellectual property assets. Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products. Claims that Applieds products infringe the rights of others, whether or not meritorious, can be expensive and time-consuming to defend and resolve, and may divert the efforts and attention of management and personnel. The inability to obtain rights to use third party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms could have an adverse impact on Applieds business. In addition, Applied may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information. Any such incidents and claims could severely harm Applieds business and reputation, result in significant expenses, harm its competitive position, and prevent Applied from selling certain products, all of which could have a significant adverse impact on Applieds business and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents. In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or its third-party providers. These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personal information of individuals. All information technology systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure. Applied and its third-party providers have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity incidents, some of which have been, and may continue to be, successful. These cybersecurity incidents may range from employee error or misuse or unauthorized use of information technology systems or confidential information, to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated cybersecurity attacks, known as advanced persistent threats, any of which may target the Company directly or indirectly through its third party providers and global supply chain. Globally, cybersecurity attacks are increasing in number and the attackers are increasingly organized and well-financed, or at times supported by state actors. In addition, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine or increasing tension with China, may create a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks. Although no such cybersecurity incident has been material to the Company to date, Applied continues to devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse, and it may be required to expend greater resources in the future, especially in the face of continuously evolving and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats and privacy and data protection laws. Applied may be unable to anticipate, prevent or remediate future attacks, and in some instances Applied may be unaware of a cybersecurity incident or its magnitude and effects, particularly as attackers are becoming increasingly able to circumvent controls and remove forensic evidence. Depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents may result in business disruption, such as delay in the development and delivery of Applieds products or disruption of Applieds manufacturing processes, internal communications, interactions with customers and suppliers and processing and reporting financial results; the theft or misappropriation of intellectual property; corruption, loss of, or inability to access (e.g., through ransomware or denial of service) confidential information and critical data (i.e., that of Applied and its third party providers and customers); reputational damage; litigation or regulatory enforcement action related to contractual or regulatory privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, or other confidentiality obligations; diminution in the value of Applieds investment in research, development and engineering; and increased costs associated with the implementation of cybersecurity measures to detect, deter, protect against, and recover from such incidents. Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy, cybersecurity, and data protection, including developing restrictions on cross-border data transfer, could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties. Further, customers and third-party providers increasingly demand rigorous contractual provisions regarding privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, confidentiality, and intellectual property, which may also increase our overall compliance burden. 25 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks associated with business combinations, acquisitions, strategic investments and divestitures. Applied engages in acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks to Applieds business, financial condition and operating results, including but not limited to: inability to complete proposed transactions timely or at all due to the failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals, litigation or other disputes, and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee; diversion of managements attention and disruption of ongoing businesses; the failure to realize expected revenues, gross and operating margins, net income and other returns from acquired businesses; requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures and restrictions on the conduct of Applieds existing business or the acquired business; following completion of acquisitions, ineffective integration of businesses, operations, systems, digital and physical security, technologies, products, employees, compliance programs, changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws, or other factors, may impact the ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits; failure to commercialize technologies from acquired businesses or developed through strategic investments; dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applieds existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions and customer relationships; failure to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses; the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; potential changes in Applieds credit rating, which could adversely impact the Companys access to and cost of capital; reductions in cash balances or increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which increase interest expense, and reductions in cash balances, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes, including share repurchases and dividends; exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where Applied has not historically conducted business; challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people; inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal financial controls, disclosure