Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone , iPad , Mac , iPod , Apple TV , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and OS X operating systems, iCloud , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. In September 2014, the Company announced Apple Watch, which is expected to be available in early calendar year 2015, and Apple Pay, which became available in the U.S. in October 2014. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , App Store, iBooks Store and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses (SMB) and education, enterprise and government customers. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977. Business Strategy The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services to provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease-of-use and seamless integration. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. As part of the iTunes Store, the Companys App Store and iBooks Store allow customers to discover and download applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices (iOS devices). The Companys Mac App Store allows customers to easily discover, download and install Mac applications. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. The Company believes a high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the Companys products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Companys strategy also includes building and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company believes continual investment in research and development (R&D), marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products and technologies. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 1 Table of Contents Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based on the nature and location of its customers, to be the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan, Rest of Asia Pacific and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest of Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than those countries included in the Companys other operating segments. The results of the Companys geographic segments do not include the results of the Retail segment. Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading Segment Operating Performance, and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Products iPhone iPhone is the Companys line of smartphones that combines a phone, music player and internet device in one product, and is based on Apples iOS Multi-Touch operating system. iPhone has an integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and on qualifying devices, also includes Siri , a voice activated intelligent assistant. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, the App Store and iBooks Store for purchasing, organizing and playing music, movies, TV shows, podcasts, books and apps. In addition to apps delivered with iOS, free downloads of iLife and iWork apps for iOS are available with all new iPhones. iPhone is compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apples iCloud services which provide synchronization of mail, contacts, calendars, apps, music, photos, documents and more across users devices. In September 2014, the Company introduced iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus that feature larger 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch Retina HD displays and support for Apple Pay. iPad iPad is the Companys line of multi-purpose tablets based on Apples iOS Multi-Touch operating system, which includes iPad Air and iPad mini. iPad has an integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and on qualifying devices, also includes Siri. iPad works with the iTunes Store, the iBooks Store and the App Store for purchasing, organizing and playing music, movies, TV shows, podcasts, books and apps. In addition to apps delivered with iOS for qualifying devices, iLife and iWork apps for iOS are available as free downloads with all new iPads. iPad is compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apples iCloud services. In October 2014, the Company introduced iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3 that feature a Retina display, Touch ID and support for Apple Pay. Mac Mac is the Companys line of desktop and portable personal computers. Macs feature Intel microprocessors, the OS X operating system and include Mail, Safari web browser, Messages, Calendar, Reminders, Contacts and the iLife apps. The Companys iWork apps are also available as free downloads with all new Macs. The Companys desktop computers include iMac , Mac Pro and Mac mini. The Companys portable computers include MacBook Pro , MacBook Pro with Retina display and MacBook Air . In October 2014, the Company introduced the 27-inch iMac with Retina 5K display with improved performance, power efficiency and visual quality; and updated the Mac mini. iPod The Companys iPod line of portable digital music and media players includes iPod touch, iPod nano and iPod shuffle . All iPods work with iTunes to purchase and synchronize content. iPod touch, based on the Companys iOS Multi-Touch operating system, is a flash-memory-based iPod with an integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and also includes Siri. iPod touch works with the iTunes Store, the App Store and the iBooks Store for purchasing and playing music, movies, TV shows, podcasts, books and apps. In addition to apps delivered with iOS, iLife and iWork apps for iOS are available as free downloads for all new iPod touch products. iPod touch is compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apples iCloud services. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 2 Table of Contents iTunes and the iTunes Store Apples iTunes app, available for iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple TV, keeps users music, movies and TV shows organized in one place. iTunes is integrated with the iTunes Store, the App Store, the iBooks Store, iTunes U and iTunes Radio. The iTunes Store allows customers to purchase and download music and TV shows, rent or purchase movies and download free Podcasts. The App Store allows customers to discover and download apps and purchase in-app content. The iBooks Store features e-books from major and independent publishers. iTunes U allows users to download free lectures, videos and more from top universities, museums and other institutions. iTunes Radio provides a free Internet streaming service that allows users to personalize radio stations featuring music from the iTunes Store. In July 2014, the Company acquired Beats Music, LLC, which offers a subscription streaming music service that offers a curated listening experience and complements the Companys other music services and offerings. Mac App Store The Mac App Store allows customers to discover, download and install Mac applications. The Mac App Store offers applications in education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories. The Companys OS X operating system software and its iLife, iWork and other application software titles are also available on the Mac App Store. iCloud iCloud is the Companys cloud service which stores music, photos, applications, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them up-to-date and available to multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple TV. iCloud services include iTunes in the Cloud, iCloud Drive SM , iCloud Photo Sharing, Family Sharing, Find My iPhone, iPad or Mac and iCloud Backup for iOS devices. Users can sign up for free access to iCloud using a device running qualifying versions of iOS or OS X. Apple Pay In October 2014, the Company released Apple Pay in the U.S., a new service aimed at making mobile payments easy, secure and private. Apple Pay works with iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3. Apple Pay will also work with the newly announced Apple Watch upon its expected availability in early calendar year 2015. Operating System Software iOS iOS is the Companys Multi-Touch operating system that serves as the foundation for iOS devices. Apps delivered with iOS for qualifying devices include Safari web browser, FaceTime video calling, Maps, Mail, Contacts, Calendar, Clock, Weather, Calculator, Notes, Reminders, Stocks, Compass and Messages. Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apples iCloud services. In September 2014, the Company released iOS 8, which provides new features for Messages and Photos, predictive typing for Apples QuickType keyboard and a new Health app. iOS 8 also introduced Family Sharing, which enables easier sharing of purchases, photos and calendars within the same household. OS X OS X, the Companys Mac operating system, is built on an open-source UNIX-based foundation and provides an intuitive and integrated computer experience. OS X Yosemite, released in October 2014, is the eleventh major release of OS X. Support for iCloud is built into OS X so users can access content and information from their Macs, their iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. Apps delivered with OS X include Mail, Safari web browser, Messages, Calendar, Reminders, Contacts, Maps, iBooks and the iLife apps. OS X Yosemite incorporates additional continuity features including Handoff, which allows users to start an activity on one Mac or iOS device and pass it to another Mac or iOS device. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 3 Table of Contents Application Software iLife iLife for Mac is the Companys consumer-oriented digital lifestyle software application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto , a digital photo application for storing, viewing, editing and sharing photos; iMovie , a digital video editing application; and GarageBand , a music creation application that allows users to play, record and create music. The Company also has Multi-Touch versions of these iLife applications designed specifically for use on iOS devices. iWork iWork for Mac is the Companys integrated productivity suite designed to help users create, present and publish documents, presentations and spreadsheets. iWork includes Pages for word processing and page layout, Keynote for presentations and Numbers for spreadsheets. The Company also has iOS Multi-Touch versions of each iWork application designed specifically for use on iOS devices. Other Application Software The Company also sells various other application software, including its professional line of applications: Final Cut Pro , Logic Pro X and its FileMaker Pro database software. Accessories The Company sells a variety of Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible accessories, including Apple TV, headphones, cases, displays, storage devices and various other connectivity and computing products and supplies. In July 2014, the Company acquired Beats Electronics, LLC, which makes Beats headphones, speakers and audio software. Apple TV Apple TV connects to consumers high definition TVs and enables them to access iTunes content directly for streaming HD video, playing music and viewing photos. Content from iTunes Radio, Beats Music and other media services, including Netflix, YouTube, Flickr, Hulu Plus, Vevo, MLB, NBA and NHL is available on Apple TV. Apple TV allows streaming iTunes content from Macs and Windows personal computers through Home Share and through AirPlay from compatible Mac and iOS devices. Compatible Mac and iOS devices can also mirror their device screens as well as stream and play games on Apple TV. Apple Watch In September 2014, the Company announced Apple Watch, a personal electronic device that combines new precision watch technology with an iOS-based user interface created specifically for a smaller device. Apple Watch features Digital Crown, a unique navigation tool that allows users to seamlessly scroll, zoom and navigate. Apple Watch enables customers to communicate in new ways from their wrist and features Force Touch, a technology that senses the difference between a tap and a press and allows users to access controls within apps. Apple Watch is expected to be available in early calendar year 2015 and will be compatible with iPhone 5 and newer iPhone models running the latest version of iOS 8. iOS and Mac Developer Programs The Companys iOS and Mac Developer Programs support app developers with the development, testing and distribution of iOS and Mac apps through the App Store and the Mac App Store. Development tools included with the Companys Developer Programs include Xcode , the Companys integrated development environment for creating apps for iOS devices and Mac. Xcode includes project management tools; analysis tools to collect, display and compare app performance data; simulation tools to locally run, test and debug apps; tools to simplify the design and development of user interfaces; Swift, the Companys new programming language for both iOS and OS X introduced in June 2014; and the latest software development kits for iOS and OS X. The Companys Developer Programs also provide access to multiple development resources including the Companys Developer Forums, extensive technical documentation and sample code. The Companys Developer Programs also provide developers with access tools and information for submitting their apps to the App Store and the Mac App Store. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Product Support and Services AppleCare offers a range of support options for the Companys customers. These include assistance that is built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) and the AppleCare+ Protection Plan (AC+). APP is a fee-based service that typically includes two to three years of phone support, hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources. AC+ is a fee-based service available in certain countries for iPhone and iPad. AC+ offers additional coverage under some circumstances for instances of accidental damage in addition to the services offered by APP. Markets and Distribution The Companys customers are primarily in the consumer, SMB, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and SMBs through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. During 2014, the Companys net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 28% and 72%, respectively, of total net sales. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to build and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. The Companys retail stores are typically located at high-traffic locations in quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. By operating its own stores and locating them in desirable high-traffic locations the Company is better positioned to ensure a high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing of the Companys products and related solutions. The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training and offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software and other accessories that complement the Companys products. The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high-quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of product expertise, integration and support services. The Company is committed to delivering solutions to help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction can result in higher levels of student achievement and has designed a range of products, services and programs to address the needs of education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution of, and access to, education related materials through iTunes U, a platform that allows students and teachers to share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products to the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. The Company also sells its hardware and software products to enterprise and government customers in each of its geographic segments. The Companys products are deployed in these markets because of their performance, productivity, ease of use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Companys products are compatible with thousands of third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment of custom applications as well as remote device administration. In July 2014, the Company announced a global partnership with IBM to offer MobileFirst for iOS, a new class of industry-specific mobile solutions; AppleCare for Enterprise, a new service and support product tailored to the needs of enterprise customers; and Device Supply, Activate and Manage, a suite of value-added reselling services for iPhone, iPad and Mac. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2014, 2013 or 2012. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and the Company is confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of its business. These markets are characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use of mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and other digital electronic devices. The Companys competitors who sell mobile devices and personal computers based on other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins to gain or maintain market share. The Companys financial condition and operating results can be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on gross margins. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product features, relative price/performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition in these markets to intensify significantly as competitors attempt to imitate some of the features of the Companys products and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized by aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The Companys digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer music and video services. The Companys future financial condition and operating results depend on the Companys ability to continue to develop and offer new innovative products and services in each of the markets in which it competes. The Company believes it offers superior innovation and integration of the entire solution including the hardware (iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod), software (iOS, OS X and iTunes), online services and distribution of digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Mac App Store). Some of the Companys current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the Companys offerings. Supply of Components Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, a number of components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. In addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants in the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. If the Companys supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Companys business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers concentrated on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents While the Company manufactures some Macs in the United States, substantially all of the Companys hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. Certain of these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers of components and manufacturers for many of the Companys products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Companys operating results could be adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments. The Companys purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods up to 150 days. Research and Development Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and to expand the range of its product offerings through R&D, licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Total R&D expense was $6.0 billion, $4.5 billion and $3.4 billion in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights to patents and copyrights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. The Company has registered or has applied for trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a number of foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents around the world. The Company holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single patent or copyright is solely responsible for protecting the Companys products. The Company believes the duration of its patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. Many of the Companys products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Companys products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data During 2014, the Companys domestic and international net sales accounted for 38% and 62%, respectively, of total net sales. Information regarding financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading Segment Operating Performance, and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. While substantially all of the Companys hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, the Company also performs final assembly of certain products at its manufacturing facility in Ireland. The supply and manufacture of a number of components is performed by sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration in the available sources of supply of materials and products is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact the Companys net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often, channel inventory of a particular product declines as the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of the Companys future pattern of product introductions, future net sales or financial performance. Warranty The Company offers a limited parts and labor warranty on most of its hardware products. The basic warranty period is typically one year from the date of purchase by the original end-user. The Company also offers a 90-day basic warranty for its service parts used to repair the Companys hardware products. In certain jurisdictions, local law requires that manufacturers guarantee their products for a period prescribed by statute, typically at least two years. In addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP or AC+, which extends service coverage on many of the Companys hardware products. Backlog In the Companys experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases immediately following new product introductions as customers anticipate shortages. Backlog is often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Companys ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Employees As of September 27, 2014, the Company had approximately 92,600 full-time equivalent employees and an additional 4,400 full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Approximately 46,200 of the total full-time equivalent employees worked in the Companys Retail segment. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and files or furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on the Companys website at investor.apple.com/sec.cfm when such reports are available on the SECs website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause the Companys actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past or anticipated future results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Companys operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values and/or other factors. These worldwide and regional economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Companys products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Companys expectations as a result of currency fluctuations because the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside the U.S. to correspond with the effect of a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Other factors that could influence worldwide or regional demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Companys products and services. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on the Companys business, including the insolvency or financial instability of outsourcing partners or suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Companys products; failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; and restrictions on the Companys ability to issue new debt. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; volatility in foreign exchange rates; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Companys financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents Global markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The Companys products and services compete in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price cutting and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in R&D. The Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. In contrast, many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if competitors infringe on the Companys intellectual property, the Companys ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be adversely affected. The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based on the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships; and the Company has a minority market share in the smartphone market. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition as competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt to imitate the Companys product features and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain third-party digital content and applications and with business models that include content provided to users for free. Some of the Companys competitors have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and/or experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Companys approach to providing components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. The Companys financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Companys ability to continually improve iOS and iOS devices in order to maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company is the only authorized maker of hardware using OS X, which has a minority market share in the personal computer market. This market has been contracting and is dominated by computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. In the market for personal computers and accessories, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower priced products and a larger installed customer base. Historically, consolidation in this market has resulted in larger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. An increasing number of Internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Companys existing products. The Companys financial condition and operating results also depend on its ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain its functional and design advantages. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 10 Table of Contents To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with new product production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or deficiencies in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions. The Company depends on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, national and regional retailers, and value-added resellers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and third-party products in most of its major markets directly to education, enterprise and government customers, and consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its online and retail stores. Carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone typically subsidize users purchases of the device. There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Companys agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. Many resellers have narrow operating margins and have been adversely affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Companys direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Companys products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of the Companys products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. The financial condition of these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Companys products, or uncertainty regarding demand for the Companys products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its provisions related to inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders, in each case based on projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied to inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods up to 150 days. Because the Companys markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 11 Table of Contents Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. A number of suppliers of components may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead to business failure for the supplier or consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components. The follow-on effects from global economic conditions on the Companys suppliers, described in Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company above, also could affect the Companys ability to obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases. The Company and other participants in the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of these industries. The Companys new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. The supply of components for a new or existing product could be delayed or constrained, or a key manufacturing vendor could delay shipments of completed products to the Company. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by a few outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Companys flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect or warranty liability. While the Company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, material violations of the supplier code of conduct could occur. The Company relies on sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe to supply and manufacture many critical components, and on outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia, for final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. Any failure of these partners to perform may have a negative impact on the Companys cost or supply of components or finished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations or transit to final destinations may be disrupted for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. The Company has invested in manufacturing process equipment, much of which is held at certain of its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply of components and finished goods, if these outsourcing partners or suppliers experience severe financial problems or other disruptions in their business, the net realizable value of these assets could be negatively impacted. The Companys products and services may experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin and harm to the Companys reputation. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with the softwares intended operation. The Companys online services may from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns, or errors. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses and harm to the Companys reputation. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 12 Table of Contents The Company relies on access to third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content through the iTunes Store. This includes the right to make available music, movies, TV shows and books currently available through the iTunes Store. The licensing or other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Companys access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach. Failure to obtain the right to make available third-party digital content, or to make available such content on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions. If requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company to license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Companys content providers. The Companys future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Companys products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Companys products, customers may choose not to buy the Companys products. With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part on the developers perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software for the Companys products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of Mac sales and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Companys minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Macs prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Companys Mac products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect to iOS devices, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications, which are distributed through a single distribution channel, the App Store. iOS devices are subject to rapid technological change, and, if third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result in dissatisfied customers. As with applications for the Companys Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing software for the Companys iOS devices rather than its competitors platforms, such as Android. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Companys iOS devices may suffer. The Company relies on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of the Companys products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based on past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally can be obtained on reasonable terms. There is, however, no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 13 Table of Contents The Company could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings, such as being found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business, and additional claims may arise in the future. For example, technology companies, including many of the Companys competitors, frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As the Company has grown, the intellectual property rights claims against it have increased and may continue to increase. In particular, the Companys cellular enabled products compete with mobile communication and media device companies that hold significant patent portfolios, and the number of patent claims against the Company has significantly increased. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in a number of U.S. jurisdictions and before the U.S. International Trade Commission, as well as internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation. If the Company is found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, regardless of whether it can develop non-infringing technology, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party, or it may be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Companys operating expenses. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Companys operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into arrangements to settle litigation. In managements opinion, there is not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies, including matters related to infringement of intellectual property rights. However, the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. Although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase the Companys costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect the Companys business. The Company is subject to laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations in a number of areas. These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Companys activities including, but not limited to, in areas of labor, advertising, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 14 Table of Contents By way of example, laws and regulations related to mobile communications and media devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions on the production, manufacture, distribution and use of devices, locking devices to a carriers network, or mandating the use of devices on more than one carriers network. These devices are also subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications, or delays in product shipment dates, or could preclude the Company from selling certain products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make the Companys products and services less attractive to the Companys customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause the Company to change or limit its business practices. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Companys employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Companys policies and procedures. The Companys business is subject to the risks of international operations. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by the Companys employees, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. The Company also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs and political instability. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company is also exposed to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables with customers in certain international markets. There can be no assurance the Company can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Companys Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The Companys retail stores have required substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Companys more typical retail stores. Due to the high cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs. Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Companys control, pose risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, macro-economic factors that could have an adverse effect on general retail activity, as well as the Companys inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, the Companys failure to manage relationships with its existing retail partners, more challenging environments in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and the Companys inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 15 Table of Contents Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Companys ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return of capital and unidentified issues not discovered in the Companys due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. The Companys business and reputation may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. The Company may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Companys disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to the Companys online stores and services, preclude retail store transactions, compromise Company or customer data, and result in delayed or cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, delivery of online services, transactions processing and financial reporting. There may be breaches of the Companys information technology systems that materially damage business partner and customer relationships, curtail or otherwise adversely impact access to online stores and services, or subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Companys business requires it to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (PII). This may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. Although malicious attacks to gain access to PII affect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the amount of PII it manages. The Company requires user names and passwords in order to access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to Company data or accounts. As with all companies, these security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access the Companys information technology systems. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result in the delay or loss of customer orders. The Company devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. To the extent the Company was to experience a breach of its systems and was unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise adversely impact access to online stores and services. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects the Companys systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, the Companys reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of the Companys products and services could decrease, and the Company could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and subject to a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 16 Table of Contents The Companys business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of PII. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the Company and its subsidiaries, and among the Company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the Company has commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company to incur substantial costs or require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability. The Companys privacy policy, which includes related practices concerning the use and disclosure of data, is posted on its website. Any failure by the Company, its suppliers or other parties with whom the Company does business to comply with its posted privacy policy or with other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. The Company is also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, the Company could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if the Company fails to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, the Company could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs. The Companys success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of the Companys future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Companys key personnel are located. The Companys business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Companys business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Companys products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Companys supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be adversely affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products and disruptions in the operations of the Companys manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Companys R&D activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 17 Table of Contents The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. The Companys profit margins vary across its products and distribution channels. The Companys software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Companys other products. Gross margins on the Companys hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Companys direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Companys gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, component cost increases, the strengthening U.S. dollar, price competition, or the introduction of new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. The Company could be subject to unexpected developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Companys products, issues with new product introductions, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Companys logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners. The Companys stock price is subject to volatility. The Companys stock price has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies operating performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its own stock to exceed the stocks price at a given point in time. The Company believes its stock price reflects expectations of future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price reflects expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Companys Board of Directors, and the Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet any of these expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases or other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. The Companys financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. The Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Companys products. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the dollars strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Companys cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 18 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing of the Companys investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. The Company also sells its products directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party financing arrangements or credit insurance. The Companys exposure to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 27, 2014, a significant portion of the Companys trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of the Companys subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The Companys future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Ireland. For example, in June 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Ireland with regard to the corporate income tax to be paid by two of the Companys Irish subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If the European Commission were to take a final decision against Ireland, it could require changes to existing tax rulings that, in turn, could increase the Companys taxes in the future. The European Commission could also require Ireland to recover from the Company past taxes reflective of the disallowed state aid. The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the Companys effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Ireland, or if the ultimate determination of the Companys taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Companys operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 19 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The Companys headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 27, 2014, the Company owned or leased 19.7 million square feet of building space, primarily in the U.S. The Company also owned or leased building space in various locations, including throughout Europe, China, Singapore and Japan. Of the total owned or leased building space 13.6 million square feet was leased building space, which includes approximately 4.9 million square feet related to retail store space. Additionally, the Company owns a total of 1,486 acres of land in various locations. As of September 27, 2014, the Company owned a manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland that also housed a customer support call center; facilities in Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and a customer support call center; and a manufacturing facility in Mesa, Arizona. The Company also owned land in Austin, Texas where it is expanding its existing office space and customer support call center. In addition, the Company owned facilities for R&D and corporate functions in Cupertino, California, including land that is being developed for the Companys second corporate campus. The Company also owned data centers in Newark, California; Maiden, North Carolina; Prineville, Oregon; and Reno, Nevada. Outside the U.S., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used by all operating segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. The Company has invested in internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues to make investments in capital equipment as needed to meet anticipated demand for its products. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below as well as certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. See the risk factor The Company could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings, such as being found to have infringed on intellectual property rights in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2014 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak v. Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker v. Apple Computer, Inc.) These related cases were filed on January 3, 2005 and July 21, 2006 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of a purported class of direct purchasers of iPods and iTunes Store content, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying of music and video purchased on the iTunes Store with the purchase of iPods and unlawful acquisition or maintenance of monopoly market power under 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, the Cartwright Act, California Business & Professions Code 17200 (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement of revenues and/or profits and attorneys fees. Plaintiffs are also seeking digital rights management free versions of any songs downloaded from iTunes or an order requiring the Company to license its digital rights management to all competing music players. The cases are set for trial in November 2014. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 20 Table of Contents Apple eBooks Antitrust Litigation (United States of America v. Apple Inc., et al.) On April 11, 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a civil antitrust action against the Company and five major book publishers in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging an unreasonable restraint of interstate trade and commerce in violation of 1 of the Sherman Act and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, the District Courts declaration that the Companys agency agreements with the publishers are null and void and/or the District Courts reformation of such agreements. On July 10, 2013, the District Court found, following a bench trial, that the Company conspired to restrain trade in violation of 1 of the Sherman Act and relevant state statutes to the extent those laws are congruent with 1 of the Sherman Act. The District Court entered a permanent injunction, which took effect on October 6, 2013 and will be in effect for five years unless the judgment is overturned on appeal. The Company has taken the necessary steps to comply with the terms of the District Courts order, including renegotiating agreements with the five major eBook publishers, updating its antitrust training program and hiring an antitrust compliance monitor. The Company appealed the District Courts decision. Pursuant to a settlement agreement reached by the parties in June 2014, any damages the Company may be obligated to pay will be determined by the outcome of the appellate decision. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ) under the symbol AAPL. Price Range of Common Stock The price range per share of common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest intraday sales prices for the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ during each quarter of the two most recent years. On June 6, 2014, the Company effected a seven-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of June 2, 2014. All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter 2014 price range per share $ 103.74 - $ 92.09 $ 95.05 - $ 73.05 $ 80.18 - $ 70.51 $ 82.16 - $ 67.77 2013 price range per share $ 73.39 - $ 57.32 $ 66.54 - $ 55.01 $ 79.29 - $ 59.86 $ 96.68 - $ 71.60 Holders As of October 10, 2014, there were 26,112 shareholders of record. Dividends The Company paid a total of $11.0 billion and $10.5 billion in dividends during 2014 and 2013, respectively, and expects to pay quarterly dividends of $0.47 per common share each quarter, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. The Company also plans to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities On July 31, 2014, in connection with its acquisitions of Beats Music, LLC and Beats Electronics, LLC (collectively Beats), the Company issued approximately 5.1 million shares of its common stock to certain former equity holders of Beats in reliance on the exemption from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The majority of these shares will vest over time based on continued employment with Apple. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 21 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September 27, 2014 was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts): Q4 Fiscal Periods Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) June 29, 2014 to August 2, 2014: Open Market Purchases 19,530 $ 96.77 19,530 August 3, 2014 to August 30, 2014: August 2014 ASR 59,924 (2) (2) 59,924 (2) Open Market Purchases 56,062 $ 98.83 56,062 August 31, 2014 to September 27, 2014: Open Market Purchases 5,663 $ 100.64 5,663 Total 141,179 $ 22,050 (1) In 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $10 billion of the Companys common stock beginning in 2013. The Companys Board of Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization to $60 billion in April 2013 and to $90 billion in April 2014. As of September 27, 2014, $67.9 billion of the $90 billion had been utilized. The remaining $22.1 billion in the table represents the amount available to repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program as of September 27, 2014. The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. (2) In August 2014, the Company entered into a new accelerated share repurchase arrangement (ASR) to purchase up to $9.0 billion of the Companys common stock. In exchange for up-front payments totaling $9.0 billion, the financial institutions committed to deliver shares during the ASRs purchase period, which will end in or before February 2015. The total number of shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average price paid per share, will be determined at the end of the applicable purchase period based on the volume weighted-average price of the Companys common stock during that period. During the fourth quarter of 2014, 59.9 million shares were delivered and retired under the ASR, and the final number of shares to be delivered will be determined at the conclusion of the purchase period. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 22 Table of Contents Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index, the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index and the S&P Information Technology Index for the five years ended September 27, 2014. The Company has added the S&P Information Technology Index to the graph to capture the stock performance of companies whose products and services relate to those of the Company. The S&P Information Technology Index replaces the S&P Computer Hardware Index, which is no longer tracked by S&P. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Index, the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index and the S&P Information Technology Index as of the market close on September 25, 2009. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. * $100 invested on 9/25/09 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Data points are the last day of each fiscal year for the Companys common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright 2014 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Co. All rights reserved. September 2009 September 2010 September 2011 September 2012 September 2013 September 2014 Apple Inc. $ 100 $ 160 $ 222 $ 367 $ 272 $ 407 S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 110 $ 111 $ 145 $ 173 $ 207 Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index $ 100 $ 112 $ 115 $ 150 $ 158 $ 205 S&P Information Technology Index $ 100 $ 111 $ 115 $ 152 $ 163 $ 210 Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September 27, 2014, is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts). 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 182,795 $ 170,910 $ 156,508 $ 108,249 $ 65,225 Net income $ 39,510 $ 37,037 $ 41,733 $ 25,922 $ 14,013 Earnings per share: Basic $ 6.49 $ 5.72 $ 6.38 $ 4.01 $ 2.20 Diluted $ 6.45 $ 5.68 $ 6.31 $ 3.95 $ 2.16 Cash dividends declared per share $ 1.82 $ 1.64 $ 0.38 $ 0 $ 0 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 6,085,572 6,477,320 6,543,726 6,469,806 6,366,224 Diluted 6,122,663 6,521,634 6,617,483 6,556,514 6,472,983 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 155,239 $ 146,761 $ 121,251 $ 81,570 $ 51,011 Total assets $ 231,839 $ 207,000 $ 176,064 $ 116,371 $ 75,183 Commercial paper $ 6,308 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Long-term debt $ 28,987 $ 16,960 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Other long-term obligations (1) $ 24,826 $ 20,208 $ 16,664 $ 10,100 $ 5,531 Total liabilities $ 120,292 $ 83,451 $ 57,854 $ 39,756 $ 27,392 Total shareholders equity $ 111,547 $ 123,549 $ 118,210 $ 76,615 $ 47,791 (1) Other long-term obligations exclude non-current deferred revenue. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Overview and Highlights The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers; small and mid-sized businesses; and education, enterprise and government customers. Fiscal 2014 Highlights Net sales rose 7% or $11.9 billion during 2014 compared to 2013. This was driven by increases in net sales of iPhone; Mac; iTunes, Software and Services; and Accessories. Net sales and unit sales increased for iPhone primarily due to the successful introduction of iPhone 5s and 5c in the latter half of calendar year 2013, the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014, and expanded distribution. Mac net sales and unit sales increased primarily due to strong demand for MacBook Air and MacBook Pro which were updated in 2014 with faster processors and offered at lower prices. Net sales of iTunes, Software and Services grew primarily due to increased revenue from sales through the App Store, AppleCare and licensing. Net sales and unit sales for iPad declined in 2014 compared to 2013 due to lower unit sales in many markets. Growth in total net sales during 2014 was also negatively impacted by the continuing decline of iPod sales. All of the Companys operating segments other than the Rest of Asia Pacific segment experienced increased net sales in 2014, with growth being strongest in the Greater China and Japan operating segments. During the first quarter of 2014, the Company introduced iPad Air, its fifth generation iPad and iPad mini with Retina display. At its Worldwide Developer Conference in June 2014, the Company announced iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite. In September 2014, the Company introduced iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, released iOS 8, announced Apple Pay, which became available in the U.S. in October 2014, and previewed Apple Watch, which is expected to be available in early calendar 2015. In October 2014, the Company introduced iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iMac with Retina 5K Display and an updated Mac mini; and released OS X Yosemite. During 2014, the Company completed various business acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Beats Music, LLC, which offers a subscription streaming music service, and Beats Electronics, LLC, which makes Beats headphones, speakers and audio software. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 25 Table of Contents In April 2014, the Company increased its share repurchase authorization to $90 billion and the quarterly dividend was raised to $0.47 per common share, resulting in an overall increase in its capital return program from $100 billion to over $130 billion. During 2014, the Company utilized $45 billion to repurchase its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $11.1 billion. The current share repurchase program is expected to be completed by the end of December 2015. The Company also issued $12.0 billion of long-term debt during 2014 with varying maturities through 2044 and launched a commercial paper program, with $6.3 billion outstanding as of September 27, 2014. Fiscal 2013 Highlights Net sales rose 9% or $14.4 billion during 2013 compared to 2012. This resulted from growth in net sales of iPhone; iTunes, Software and Services; and iPad. Growth in 2013 reflected strong sales of iPhone 5, strong continuing sales of iPhone 4 and 4s, the introduction of iPhone 5c and 5s, strong performance of the iPad mini and fourth generation iPad, and continued growth in the Companys online sales of apps, digital content and services. Growth in these areas was partially offset by declines in net sales of Mac and iPod. All of the Companys operating segments experienced increased net sales in 2013, with net sales growth being particularly strong in the Americas, Greater China and Japan operating segments. Growth in total net sales was higher during the first half of 2013, rising $12.6 billion or 14.7% over the same period in 2012. First half growth in 2013 was driven by iPhone and iPad introductions at or near the beginning of 2013. During the first quarter of 2013, the Company introduced the fourth generation iPad and iPad mini, a new MacBook Pro with Retina display, a new iPod touch, a new iMac, and expanded the rollout of iPhone 5 which began in September 2012. In June 2013 at its Worldwide Developer Conference, the Company announced iOS 7 and OS X Mavericks, announced iTunes Radio, introduced a significant upgrade to MacBook Air, and provided a preview of all new Mac Pro desktops that were introduced during 2014. In September 2013, the Company introduced iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c, released iOS 7, launched iTunes Radio, and announced that beginning in September 2013 iPhoto, iMovie and iWork Apps for iOS would be available as free downloads with all new iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices (iOS devices). In April 2013, the Company announced a significant increase to its program to return capital to shareholders by raising the total amount it expected to utilize for the program through December 2015 to $100 billion. This included increasing its share repurchase authorization to $60 billion and raising its quarterly dividend to $0.44 per common share beginning in May 2013. During 2013, the Company utilized $23.0 billion to repurchase common shares and paid dividends of $10.5 billion or $1.64 per common share. In conjunction with its capital return program, in May 2013 the Company issued $17.0 billion of long-term debt with varying maturities through 2043. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 26 Table of Contents Sales Data The following table shows net sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net Sales by Operating Segment: Americas $ 65,232 4 % $ 62,739 9 % $ 57,512 Europe 40,929 8 % 37,883 4 % 36,323 Greater China 29,846 17 % 25,417 13 % 22,533 Japan 14,982 11 % 13,462 27 % 10,571 Rest of Asia Pacific 10,344 (7 )% 11,181 4 % 10,741 Retail 21,462 6 % 20,228 7 % 18,828 Total net sales $ 182,795 7 % $ 170,910 9 % $ 156,508 Net Sales by Product: iPhone (1) $ 101,991 12 % $ 91,279 16 % $ 78,692 iPad (1) 30,283 (5 )% 31,980 3 % 30,945 Mac (1) 24,079 12 % 21,483 (7 )% 23,221 iPod (1) 2,286 (48 )% 4,411 (21 )% 5,615 iTunes, Software and Services (2) 18,063 13 % 16,051 25 % 12,890 Accessories (3) 6,093 7 % 5,706 11 % 5,145 Total net sales $ 182,795 7 % $ 170,910 9 % $ 156,508 Unit Sales by Product: iPhone 169,219 13 % 150,257 20 % 125,046 iPad 67,977 (4 )% 71,033 22 % 58,310 Mac 18,906 16 % 16,341 (10 )% 18,158 iPod 14,377 (45 )% 26,379 (25 )% 35,165 (1) Includes deferrals and amortization of related non-software services and software upgrade rights. (2) Includes revenue from the iTunes Store, the App Store, the Mac App Store, the iBooks Store, AppleCare, licensing and other services. (3) Includes sales of Apple-branded and third-party accessories for iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Companys fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 ended on September 27, 2014, September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012, respectively. Both fiscal years 2014 and 2013 spanned 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2012 spanned 53 weeks, with a 14 th week included in the first quarter of 2012, as is done approximately every six years to realign the Companys fiscal quarters more closely to calendar quarters. Inclusion of the additional week in 2012 increased the Companys overall net sales and operating expenses for the year. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 27 Table of Contents Product Performance iPhone The following table presents iPhone net sales and unit sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 101,991 12% $ 91,279 16% $ 78,692 Percentage of total net sales 56% 53% 50% Unit sales 169,219 13% 150,257 20% 125,046 The year-over-year growth in iPhone net sales and unit sales in 2014 resulted primarily from the successful introduction of new iPhones in the latter half of calendar year 2013, the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus beginning in September 2014, and expanded distribution. iPhone unit sales grew in all of the Companys operating segments, while iPhone net sales grew in all segments except Rest of Asia Pacific. Overall average selling prices (ASPs) for iPhone were relatively flat in 2014 compared to 2013, with growth in ASPs in the Americas and Retail segments being offset by a decline in ASPs in the Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific segments. The growth in iPhone net sales and unit sales during 2013 resulted from increased demand for iPhone in all of the Companys operating segments primarily due to the launch of iPhone 5 beginning in September 2012 and strong ongoing demand for iPhone 4 and 4s. All of the Companys operating segments experienced increases in net sales and unit sales of iPhone during 2013 compared to 2012. The year-over-year impact of higher iPhone unit sales in 2013 was partially offset by a 3% decline in iPhone ASPs primarily as a result of a shift in product mix towards lower-priced iPhone models, particularly iPhone 4. All of the Companys geographic operating segments experienced a decline in iPhone ASPs during 2013. iPad The following table presents iPad net sales and unit sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 30,283 (5 )% $ 31,980 3% $ 30,945 Percentage of total net sales 17% 19% 20% Unit sales 67,977 (4 )% 71,033 22% 58,310 Net sales and unit sales for iPad declined in 2014 compared to 2013. iPad net sales and unit sales grew in the Greater China and Japan segments but this growth was more than offset by a decline in all other segments. Overall iPad ASPs were relatively flat in 2014 compared to 2013 with a shift in mix to higher-priced iPads being offset by the October 2013 price reduction of iPad mini. ASPs increased in the Japan and Retail segments but were flat to slightly down in other segments. The growth in net sales and unit sales of iPad during 2013 resulted from growth in iPad unit sales in all of the Companys operating segments. This growth was driven by the launch of iPad mini and the fourth generation iPad beginning in the first quarter of 2013. The year-over-year growth rate of total iPad unit sales was significantly higher than the growth rate of total iPad net sales for 2013 due to a reduction in iPad ASPs of 15% in 2013 compared to 2012. This decline resulted primarily from introduction of the lower priced iPad mini and the full year impact of the price reduction on iPad 2 made in 2012. The decline in iPad ASPs was experienced to various degrees by all of the Companys operating segments. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 28 Table of Contents Mac The following table presents Mac net sales and unit sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 24,079 12% $ 21,483 (7 )% $ 23,221 Percentage of total net sales 13% 13% 15% Unit sales 18,906 16% 16,341 (10 )% 18,158 The year-over-year growth in Mac net sales and unit sales for 2014 was primarily driven by increased sales of MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Pro. Mac net sales and unit sales increased in all of the Companys operating segments. Mac ASPs decreased during 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to price reductions on certain Mac models and a shift in mix towards Mac portable systems. Mac net sales and unit sales for 2013 were down or relatively flat in all of the Companys operating segments. Mac ASPs increased slightly partially offsetting the impact of lower unit sales on net sales. The decline in Mac unit sales and net sales reflected the overall weakness in the market for personal computers. iTunes, Software and Services The following table presents net sales information of iTunes, Software and Services for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 iTunes, Software and Services $ 18,063 13% $ 16,051 25% $ 12,890 Percentage of total net sales 10% 9% 8% The increase in net sales of iTunes, Software and Services in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to growth in net sales from the iTunes Store, AppleCare and licensing. The iTunes Store generated a total of $10.2 billion in net sales during 2014 compared to $9.3 billion during 2013. Growth in net sales from the iTunes Store was driven by increases in revenue from app sales reflecting continued growth in the installed base of iOS devices and the expanded offerings of iOS Apps and related in-App purchases. This was partially offset by a decline in sales of digital music. The increase in net sales of iTunes, Software and Services in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to growth in net sales from the iTunes Store, AppleCare and licensing. The iTunes Store generated a total of $9.3 billion in net sales during 2013, a 24% increase from 2012. Growth in the iTunes Store, which includes the App Store, the Mac App Store and the iBooks Store, reflected continued growth in the installed base of iOS devices, expanded offerings of iOS Apps and related in-App purchases, and expanded offerings of iTunes digital content. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based on the nature and location of its customers, to be the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan, Rest of Asia Pacific and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest of Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than those countries included in the Companys other operating segments. The results of the Companys geographic segments do not include results of the Retail segment. Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 29 Table of Contents Americas The following table presents Americas net sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 65,232 4% $ 62,739 9% $ 57,512 Percentage of total net sales 36% 37% 37% The growth in the Americas segment in 2014 was due to increased net sales of iPhone, Mac and iTunes, Software and Services that were partially offset by a decline in net sales of iPod and iPad and weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar compared to 2013. iPhone growth resulted primarily from the successful introduction of iPhone 5s and 5c in September 2013 and the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in September 2014. Mac growth was driven primarily by increased net sales and unit sales of MacBook Air and Mac Pro. The growth in the Americas segment net sales during 2013 was driven by increased sales of iPhone following the introduction of iPhone 5 in September 2012 and iPhone 5s and 5c in September 2013, increased sales from the iTunes Store, and increased sales of iPad, particularly iPad mini. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net sales of iPod and Mac and a decline in iPad ASPs. Europe The following table presents Europe net sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 40,929 8% $ 37,883 4% $ 36,323 Percentage of total net sales 22% 22% 23% The growth in the Europe segment in 2014 was due to increased net sales of iPhone, Mac and iTunes, Software and Services, as well as strength in European currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by a decline in net sales of both iPad and iPod. iPhone growth resulted primarily from the successful introduction of iPhone 5s and 5c in the second half of calendar 2013 and the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in over 20 countries in Europe in September 2014. Mac growth was driven primarily by increased net sales and unit sales of MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Pro. The growth in net sales in the Europe segment during 2013 was primarily driven by increased sales of iPhone, iPad and higher net sales from iTunes. These increases were partially offset by decreases in net sales of Mac and iPod and a decline in iPad ASPs. Net sales in the Europe segment continued to be negatively impacted by unfavorable economic conditions in parts of the region reflected by second half 2013 net sales falling 4% compared to the second half of 2012, which followed an 11% increase in net sales during the first half of 2013. Greater China The following table presents Greater China net sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 29,846 17% $ 25,417 13% $ 22,533 Percentage of total net sales 16% 15% 14% The Greater China segment experienced year-over-year growth in net sales in 2014 that was significantly higher than the growth rate for the Company overall. Greater China growth was driven by higher unit sales and net sales of all major product categories except iPod, in addition to higher net sales of iTunes, Software and Services. Growth in net sales and unit sales of iPhone was especially strong, driven by the successful launch of iPhone 5s and 5c in Mainland China and Hong Kong in September 2013, the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in Hong Kong in September 2014, increased demand for the Companys entry-priced iPhones and the addition of a significant new carrier in the second quarter of 2014. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 30 Table of Contents The growth in net sales in the Greater China segment during 2013 resulted from two major iPhone introductions during the year, iPhone 5 in December 2012 and iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s in September 2013. Further contributing to the growth in 2013 was the introduction of the fourth generation iPad and iPad mini during the second quarter of 2013 and an increase in iPhone channel inventory as of the end of 2013 compared to the end of 2012. While net sales in the Greater China segment were up 13% for all of 2013, net sales for the second half of 2013 declined 4% compared to the second half of 2012. Japan The following table presents Japan net sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 14,982 11% $ 13,462 27% $ 10,571 Percentage of total net sales 8% 8% 7% In 2014 the Japan segment generated year-over-year increases in net sales and unit sales of every major product category except iPod and experienced growth in net sales of iTunes, Software and Service. The year-over-year growth in iPhone was driven by the successful launch of iPhone 5s and 5c in September 2013, the successful launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in September 2014, increased demand for the Companys entry-priced iPhones and the addition of a significant new carrier in the fourth quarter of 2013. These positive factors were partially offset by weakness in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar. The increase in net sales in the Japan segment during 2013 reflected significant increases in unit volumes of iPhone and iPad, strong growth of iTunes Store net sales and an increase in iPhone channel inventory as of the end of 2013 compared to the end of 2012. These positive factors were partially offset by declines in ASPs for iPhone and iPad and by weakness in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Rest of Asia Pacific The following table presents Rest of Asia Pacific net sales information for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 10,344 (7 )% $ 11,181 4% $ 10,741 Percentage of total net sales 6% 7% 7% Net sales in the Rest of Asia Pacific segment declined in 2014 compared to 2013 due to year-over-year reductions in net sales in all major product categories except Mac and reductions in unit sales of iPad and iPod. Net sales in 2014 were also negatively affected by the weakness in several foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, including the Australian dollar. The year-over-year growth in Rest of Asia Pacific segment net sales during 2013 was primarily driven by the launch of iPhone 5 and higher sales from the iTunes Store, partially offset by a decrease in net sales of iPad and Mac. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 31 Table of Contents Retail The following table presents Retail information for the years ended and as of September 27, 2014, September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012 (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Net sales $ 21,462 6% $ 20,228 7% $ 18,828 Percentage of total net sales 12% 12% 12% U.S. stores 259 254 250 International stores 178 162 140 Total store count 437 416 390 Headcount 46,200 42,800 42,400 The growth in Retail segment net sales in 2014 was primarily driven by increases in net sales and unit sales of iPhone and Mac, partially offset by declines in net sales and unit sales of iPad and iPod. With an average of 424 and 403 open stores during 2014 and 2013, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $50.6 million in 2014 from $50.2 million in 2013. The growth in Retail segment net sales during 2013 was primarily driven by increased unit sales of iPhone and iPad following the new product introductions in the first half of 2013 and increased sales of services. With an average of 403 and 365 open stores during 2013 and 2012, respectively, average revenue per store decreased to $50.2 million in 2013, compared to $51.5 million in 2012. The Retail segments operating income was $4.6 billion, $4.0 billion and $4.6 billion during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The year-over-year increase in Retail segment operating income in 2014 was attributable to higher net sales and higher gross margin primarily due to a higher mix of iPhone. The year-over-year decrease in Retail segment operating income in 2013 was primarily attributable to lower gross margin similar to that experienced by the Company overall, partially offset by higher net sales. Gross Margin Gross margin for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are as follows (dollars in millions): 2014 2013 2012 Net sales $ 182,795 $ 170,910 $ 156,508 Cost of sales 112,258 106,606 87,846 Gross margin $ 70,537 $ 64,304 $ 68,662 Gross margin percentage 38.6% 37.6% 43.9% The year-over-year increase in the gross margin percentage in 2014 was driven by multiple factors including lower commodity costs, a favorable shift in mix to products with higher margins and improved leverage on fixed costs from higher net sales, which was partially offset by the weakness in several foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, price reductions on select products and higher cost structures on certain new products. The year-over-year decrease in gross margin in 2013 compared to 2012 was driven by multiple factors including introduction of new versions of existing products with higher cost structures and flat or reduced pricing; a shift in sales mix to products with lower margins; introduction of iPad mini with gross margin significantly below the Companys average product margins; higher expenses associated with changes to certain of the Companys service policies and other warranty costs; price reductions on certain products, including iPad 2 and iPhone 4; and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange fluctuations. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 32 Table of Contents The Company anticipates gross margin during the first quarter of 2015 to be between 37.5% and 38.5%. The foregoing statement regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2015 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results. The Companys future gross margins can be impacted by multiple factors including, but not limited to those set forth above in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors and those described in this paragraph. In general, the Company believes gross margins will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions, potential increases in the cost of components and potential strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are as follows (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Research and development $ 6,041 35% $ 4,475 32% $ 3,381 Percentage of total net sales 3% 3% 2% Selling, general and administrative $ 11,993 11% $ 10,830 8% $ 10,040 Percentage of total net sales 7% 6% 6% Total operating expenses $ 18,034 18% $ 15,305 14% $ 13,421 Percentage of total net sales 10% 9% 9% Research and Development (R&D) Expense The year-over-year growth in 2014 and 2013 R&D expense was driven primarily by an increase in headcount and related expenses, including share-based compensation costs and machinery and equipment to support expanded R&D activities. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to make further investments in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expense The growth in SG&A expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to increased headcount and related expenses, including share-based compensation costs; higher spending on marketing, advertising and professional services; and the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment. The growth in SG&A during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment and increased headcount and related expenses, partially offset by decreased spending on professional services. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 33 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are as follows (dollars in millions): 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Interest and dividend income $ 1,795 $ 1,616 $ 1,088 Interest expense (384 ) (136 ) 0 Other expense, net (431 ) (324 ) (566 ) Total other income/(expense), net $ 980 (15 )% $ 1,156 121 % $ 522 The decrease in other income and expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was due primarily to higher interest expense on debt and higher expenses associated with foreign exchange rate movements, partially offset by lower premium expenses on foreign exchange contracts and higher interest income. The year-over-year increase in other income and expense during 2013 was due primarily to higher interest and dividend income resulting from the Companys higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and lower premium expenses on foreign exchange contracts, partially offset by interest expense on debt issued in the third quarter of 2013 and higher expenses associated with foreign exchange rate movements. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 1.11%, 1.03% and 1.03% during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company had no debt outstanding during 2012 and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are as follows (dollars in millions): 2014 2013 2012 Provision for income taxes $ 13,973 $ 13,118 $ 14,030 Effective tax rate 26.1% 26.2% 25.2% The Companys effective tax rates for all years differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings, a substantial portion of which was generated by subsidiaries organized in Ireland, for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. As of September 27, 2014, the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses and tax credits of $5.1 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $20.3 billion. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for and the amount of a valuation allowance. During the fiscal year ended September 27, 2014, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concluded its review of the years 2004 through 2009. The IRS is currently examining the years 2010 through 2012. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of and for the years ended September 27, 2014, September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012 (in millions): 2014 2013 2012 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 155,239 $ 146,761 $ 121,251 Property, plant and equipment, net $ 20,624 $ 16,597 $ 15,452 Long-term debt $ 28,987 $ 16,960 $ 0 Working capital $ 5,083 $ 29,628 $ 19,111 Cash generated by operating activities $ 59,713 $ 53,666 $ 50,856 Cash used in investing activities $ (22,579 ) $ (33,774 ) $ (48,227 ) Cash used in financing activities $ (37,549 ) $ (16,379 ) $ (1,698 ) The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. To provide additional flexibility in managing liquidity, the Company began accessing the commercial paper markets in the third quarter of 2014. The Company currently anticipates the cash used for future dividends and the share repurchase program will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from on-going U.S. operating activities and from borrowings. As of September 27, 2014 and September 28, 2013, $137.1 billion and $111.3 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly-rated securities and its investment policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally to be investment grade with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. During 2014, cash generated from operating activities of $59.7 billion was a result of $39.5 billion of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $13.2 billion and an increase in net change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.0 billion. Cash used in investing activities of $22.6 billion during 2014 consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, of $9.0 billion; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $9.6 billion; and cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $3.8 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $37.5 billion during 2014 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $45.0 billion and cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $11.1 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and commercial paper of $12.0 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively. During 2013, cash generated from operating activities of $53.7 billion was a result of $37.0 billion of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $10.2 billion and an increase in net change in operating assets and liabilities of $6.5 billion. Cash used in investing activities of $33.8 billion during 2013 consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, of $24.0 billion and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $8.2 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $16.4 billion during 2013 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $22.9 billion and cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $10.6 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $16.9 billion. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 35 Table of Contents Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $11.0 billion during 2014, consisting of $491 million for retail store facilities and $10.5 billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Companys actual cash payments for capital expenditures during 2014 were $9.6 billion. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $13.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2015, including approximately $600 million for retail store facilities and approximately $12.4 billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, data centers and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. During 2015, the Company expects to open about 25 new retail stores, with approximately three-quarters located outside of the U.S. During 2015, the Company also expects to remodel approximately five of its existing stores. Debt In April 2014, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to issue unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper) pursuant to a commercial paper program. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. As of September 27, 2014, the Company had $6.3 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.12% and maturities generally less than nine months. In the third quarter of 2014 and 2013, the Company issued $12.0 billion and $17.0 billion of long-term debt, respectively. The debt issuances included floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $29.0 billion (collectively the Notes). The Company has entered, and may enter in the future, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on the Notes. Interest rate swaps allow the Company to effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments or floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. In the third quarter of 2014, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $9.0 billion, which effectively converted most of the fixed-rate notes into floating-rate notes, and in the third quarter of 2013, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $3.0 billion, which effectively converted the floating-rate notes into fixed-rate notes. Capital Return Program In April 2014, the Companys Board of Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $60 billion to $90 billion of the Companys common stock, of which $67.9 billion had been utilized as of September 27, 2014. The share repurchase program is expected to be completed by the end of December 2015. The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 36 Table of Contents The increase to the Companys share repurchase program authorization resulted in a total capital return program of over $130 billion. The Company expects to complete the capital return program by the end of December 2015 by paying dividends and dividend equivalents, repurchasing shares and remitting withheld taxes related to net share settlement of restricted stock units. To assist in funding its capital return program, the Company expects to access the debt markets, both domestically and internationally. The following table presents the Companys dividends, dividend equivalents, share repurchases and net share settlement activity from the start of the capital return program in August 2012 through September 2014 (in millions): Dividends and Dividend Equivalents Paid Accelerated Share Repurchases Open Market Share Repurchases Taxes Related to Settlement of Equity Awards Total 2014 $ 11,126 $ 21,000 $ 24,000 $ 1,158 $ 57,284 2013 10,564 13,950 9,000 1,082 34,596 2012 2,488 0 0 56 2,544 Total $ 24,178 $ 34,950 $ 33,000 $ 2,296 $ 94,424 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to the Company, or engages in leasing, hedging, or R&D services with the Company. The following table presents certain payments due by the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments as of September 27, 2014, and excludes amounts already recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for long-term debt (in millions): Payments Due in Less Than 1 Year Payments Due in 1-3 Years Payments Due in 4-5 Years Payments Due in More Than 5 Years Total Long-term debt $ 0 $ 5,000 $ 9,000 $ 15,000 $ 29,000 Operating leases 662 1,321 1,127 1,877 4,987 Purchase commitments 24,529 0 0 0 24,529 Other obligations 2,056 1,276 19 0 3,351 Total $ 27,247 $ 7,597 $ 10,146 $ 16,877 $ 61,867 Operating Leases The Companys major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. As of September 27, 2014, the Companys total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $5.0 billion, of which $3.6 billion related to leases for retail space. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 37 Table of Contents Purchase Commitments The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders based on projected demand information. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied to inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Other Obligations The Companys other obligations were comprised mainly of commitments to acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and commitments related to advertising, R&D, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Companys other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily of deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. As of September 27, 2014, the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $20.3 billion. Additionally, as of September 27, 2014, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $4.0 billion and an additional $630 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss with respect to indemnification of end-users of its operating system or application software for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record a liability for infringement costs related to indemnification as of September 27, 2014 or September 28, 2013. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 38 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of marketable securities, inventory valuation and valuation of manufacturing-related assets and estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title, risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products, software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential to the hardware products functionality, undelivered software elements that relate to the hardware products essential software and/or undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For sales of qualifying versions of iOS devices, Mac and Apple TV, the Company has indicated it may from time to time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. The Company also provides various non-software services to owners of qualifying versions of iOS devices and Mac. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the unspecified software upgrade rights or the non-software services, revenue is allocated to these rights and services based on the Companys ESPs. Revenue allocated to the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services based on the Companys ESPs is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices, which ranges from two to four years. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 39 Table of Contents The Companys process for determining ESPs involves managements judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Companys ESPs and the future rate of related amortization for software upgrades and non-software services related to future sales of these devices could change. Factors subject to change include the unspecified software upgrade rights offered, the estimated value of unspecified software upgrade rights, the estimated or actual costs incurred to provide non-software services and the estimated period software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For the Companys other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs that could result in reductions to future revenue. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeems such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have an adverse impact on the Companys results of operations. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities impact the Companys net income only when such securities are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost; the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security. Inventory Valuation and Valuation of Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimated Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments and has invested in manufacturing process equipment, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities. In addition, the Company has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels and component cost trends. The Company also reviews its manufacturing-related capital assets and inventory prepayments for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that an asset is not recoverable, it records an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of such an asset exceeds its fair value. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 40 Table of Contents The industries in which the Company competes are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. In certain circumstances the Company may be required to record additional write-downs of inventory, inventory prepayments and/or manufacturing-related capital assets. These circumstances include future demand or market conditions for the Companys products being less favorable than forecasted, unforeseen technological changes or changes to the Companys product development plans that negatively impact the utility of any of these assets, or significant deterioration in the financial condition of one or more of the Companys suppliers that hold any of the Companys manufacturing process equipment or to whom the Company has made an inventory prepayment. Such write-downs would adversely affect the Companys results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders in each case based on projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied to inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods up to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products, if the Companys product development plans change, or if there is an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, then the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would adversely affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company re-evaluates these estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2014 Form 10-K | 41 Table of Contents Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies for legal and other contingencies. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected.