ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our final prospectus related to our initial public offering, or IPO, dated April 14, 2021. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Our mission is to grow the mobile app ecosystem by enabling the success of mobile app developers. Our software solutions provide advanced tools for mobile app developers to grow their businesses by automating and optimizing the marketing and monetization of their apps. Since inception, our platform has driven over six billion mobile app installs for mobile app developers. Our software, coupled with our deep industry knowledge and expertise, has allowed us to rapidly scale a successful and diversified portfolio of owned mobile apps. We have also accelerated our market penetration through an active acquisition and partnership strategy. Our scaled and integrated business model sits at the nexus of the mobile app ecosystem, which creates a durable competitive advantage that has fueled our clients success and our strong growth. Since our founding in 2011, we have been focused on building a software-based platform for mobile app developers to improve the marketing and monetization of their apps. Our founders, who are mobile app developers themselves, quickly realized the real impediment to success and growth in the mobile app ecosystem was a discovery and monetization problembreaking through the congested app stores to efficiently find users and successfully grow their business. Their first-hand experience with these developer challenges led to the development of our infrastructure and softwareAppLovin Core Technologies and AppLovin Software Platform. We capitalized on our success and understanding of the mobile app ecosystem by launching AppLovin Apps in 2018. Our Apps now consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 200 free-to-play mobile games across five genres, run by fourteen studios. 24 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our revenue grew 132% year-over-year, from $260.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to $603.9 million in the comparative period in 2021. We generated a net loss of $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, and a net income of $4.7 million in the comparative period in 2020. We generated Adjusted EBITDA of $131.1 million, and $62.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our strong cash flow generation has allowed us to reinvest in our expansion and growth and consummate strategic acquisitions and partnerships. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a definition of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our Business Model We collect revenue from two sourcesbusiness clients and consumers. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, Business Revenue represented 40.6% of total revenue and Consumer Revenue represented 59.4% of total revenue. Business Revenue We generate Business Revenue from fees paid by mobile app advertisers, or business clients, that use our Software Platform to grow and monetize their apps. We also collect Business Revenue from business clients that purchase the digital advertising inventory of our portfolio of Apps. We are able to grow our Business Revenue by improving our Software Platform, adding more apps to our Apps portfolio and increasing engagement on our existing Apps. Business clients include a wide variety of advertisers, from indie developer studios to some of the largest global internet platforms, such as Facebook and Google. While we have over 500 business clients as of March 31, 2021, the vast majority of our revenue is derived from our Enterprise Clients. See Key Metrics below for additional information on how we calculate Enterprise Clients. Approximately 99% of our Business Revenue for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 came from our 194 Enterprise Clients. Our Enterprise Clients had a Net Dollar-Based Retention Rate of approximately 130% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 1 . We see multiple opportunities to gain new business clients, and to increase spend from existing business clients, as we help them grow their businesses and make them more successful. Business Revenue from our Apps was 64.0% of total Business Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2021. 1 We measure Net Dollar-Based Retention Rate for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 for our Enterprise Clients as current period revenue divided by prior period revenue. Prior period revenue is measured as revenue for the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 from our Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2020. Current period revenue is revenue for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 from our Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2021, and excludes revenue from any new Enterprise Clients during the twelve months ended March 31, 2021. 25 Table of Contents Our Software Platform includes AppDiscovery and MAX. Business clients use AppDiscovery to automate, optimize, and manage their user acquisition investments. They set marketing and user growth goals, and AppDiscovery optimizes their ad spend in an effort to achieve their return on advertising spend targets and other marketing objectives. AppDiscovery comprises the vast majority of revenue from our Software Platform. Revenue is generated from our advertisers, typically on a performance-based, cost-per-install basis, and shared with our advertising publishers, typically on a cost per impression model. Business clients use MAX to optimize purchases of app ad inventory. The Compass Analytics tool within MAX provides insights to manage against key performance indicators, understand the long-term value of users, and help manage profitability. Revenue from MAX is generated based on a percentage of client spend. As more developers move to in-app bidding monetization, we expect growth in the adoption of, and revenue from, MAX. Business clients that purchase advertising inventory from our Apps are able to target highly relevant users from our diverse and global portfolio of over 200 mobile games. Our clients leverage a broad set of high-performing mobile ad formats, including playable and rewarded video, and are able to match these ads with relevant users resulting in a better return on their advertising spend. By increasing the number of users and their engagement, as well as better matching ads with the appropriate target audience, we are able to increase our revenue from business clients that purchase advertising inventory from our Apps. Revenue from business clients related to our Apps is generated from ads purchased by advertisers, as well as from revenue-sharing agreements between some of our studios and a selection of third-party studios for which they publish and monetize games. Consumer Revenue Consumer Revenue is generated when a user of one of our Apps makes an in-app purchase (IAP). Our Apps are generally free-to-play mobile games and generate Consumer Revenue through IAPs. IAPs consist of virtual goods used to enhance gameplay, accelerate access to certain features or levels, and augment other mobile game progression opportunities for the user. IAPs drive more engagement and better economics from our Apps. The vast majority of our IAP revenue flows through two app stores, Apple App Store and Google Play, which charge us a standard commission on IAPs. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had an average of 3.1 million Monthly Active Payers (MAPs) across our portfolio of Apps. Over that period, we had an Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer (ARPMAP) of $38. Leveraging the benefit of our integrated Platform and Apps, we see opportunities to grow our App-related revenue streams by increasing MAPs and expanding ARPMAP within existing games and through new game development, acquisitions and partnerships. See Key Metrics below for additional information on how we calculate MAPs and ARPMAP. 26 Table of Contents Key Metrics We review the following key metrics on a regular basis in order to evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our performance, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Annual Key Metrics Enterprise Cli e nt s . We focus on the number of Enterprise Clients, which are third-party business clients from whom we have collected greater than $125,000 of revenue in the trailing 12 months to a given date. Enterprise Clients generate the vast majority of our Business Revenue and Business Revenue growth. We expect to increase the revenue from Enterprise Clients over time. R e v e n u e P e r Ent e r p r i se Client (RPEC). We define RPEC as (i) the total revenue derived from our Enterprise Clients in a twelve- month period, divided by (ii) Enterprise Clients as of the end of that same period. RPEC shows how efficiently we are monetizing each Enterprise Client. We expect to increase RPEC over time as we enhance our Software Platform and Apps. The following table shows our Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, and our RPEC for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Twelve months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Enterprise Clients 194 164 Revenue Per Enterprise Client (in thousands) $ 4,129 $ 3,687 Quarterly Key Metrics Software Platform Enterprise Clients. We focus on the number of Software Platform Enterprise Clients, which are third-party business clients from whom we have collected greater than $31,250 of Software Platform revenue in the three months to a given date, equating to an annual run-rate of $125,000 in revenue. Software Platform Enterprise Clients generate the vast majority of our Business Revenue - Software Platform and Business Revenue - Software Platform growth. The following table shows our Software Platform Enterprise Clients as of March 31, 2021 and 2020. Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Software Platform Enterprise Clients 193 130 Monthly Active Payers (MAPs). We define a MAP as a unique mobile device active on one of our Apps in a month that completed at least one IAP during that time period. A consumer who makes IAPs within two separate Apps on the same mobile device in a monthly period will be counted as two MAPs. MAPs for a particular time period longer than one month are the average MAPs for each month during that period. We estimate the number of MAPs by aggregating certain data from third-party attribution partners. Some of our Apps do not utilize such third-party attribution partners, and therefore our MAPs figure for any period does not capture every user that completed an IAP on our Apps. We estimate that our counted MAPs generated approximately 96% of our Consumer Revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2021, and as such, management believes that MAPs are still a useful metric to measure the engagement and monetization potential of our games. We expect to increase our MAPs over time as we increase the number of our Apps and enhance the engagement and monetization of our Apps. Av e rage R e venue P e r Monthly Active Pa y e r (ARPM A P). We define ARPMAP as (i) the total Consumer Revenue derived from our Apps in a monthly period, divided by (ii) MAPs in that same period. ARPMAP for a particular time period longer than one month is the average ARPMAP for each month during that period. ARPMAP shows how efficiently we are monetizing each MAP. We expect to increase ARPMAP over time as we enhance the monetization of our Apps. The following table shows our Monthly Active Payers and Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Monthly Active Payers (millions) 3.1 1.1 Average Revenue Per Monthly Active Payer $ 38 $ 34 T ot a l S o ftw a re T ra n s a ct i on Va l u e . Business Software Platform revenue is from third-party clients using our software platform to find new customers. We do not recognize revenue from our own spend on our software platform. Therefore, we use TSTV to measure the scale and growth rates of our software platform, as it reflects the total value on our software platform including our first-party studios as though they were stand-alone businesses. The following table shows our Total Software Transaction Value for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Total Software Transaction Value $ 147,901 $ 57,512 Our key metrics are not based on any standardized industry methodology and are not necessarily calculated in the same manner or comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Similarly, our key metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. The numbers that we use to calculate TSTV, MAP, and ARPMAP are based on internal data. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable judgments and estimates for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and engagement. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. 27 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Metrics Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA for a particular period as net income (loss) before interest expense and loss on settlement of debt, other (income) expense, net, provision for (benefit from) income taxes, amortization, depreciation and write-offs and as further adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related expense, loss (gain) on extinguishments of acquisition related continent consideration, nonoperating foreign exchange losses, lease modification and abandonment of leasehold improvements, and change in the fair value of contingent consideration. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the same period. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are key measures we use to assess our financial performance and are also used for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are helpful to investors, analysts, and other interested parties because they can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical financial periods. In addition, these measures are frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties to evaluate and assess performance. We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures and are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered as alternatives or substitutes to financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations that are necessary to run our business. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Furthermore, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations that are necessary to run our business. Thus, our Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides our Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net income (loss) (10,575 ) 4,664 Adjusted as follows: Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt 35,010 18,629 Other income, net (8,626 ) (1,110 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (3,180 ) 2,864 Amortization, depreciation and write-offs 88,817 32,279 Non-operating foreign exchange gain (1,281 ) Stock-based compensation 29,959 3,462 Acquisition-related expense 938 1,657 Adjusted EBITDA 131,062 62,445 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 21.7 % 24.0 % Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the future success of our business depends on many factors, including the factors described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address in order to continue to grow profitably while maintaining strong cash flow. Continue to invest in innovation We have made, and intend to continue to make, significant investments in our Core Technologies and Software Platform to enhance their effectiveness and value proposition for our business clients. We expect that these investments will require spending on research and development, and acquisitions and partnerships related to technology components and products. We believe investments in our Core Technologies, such as our launch of AXON and acquisition of MAX, will further improve their effectiveness for developers. Our investments will also allow us to enter new mobile app sectors outside of gaming. While our investments in research and development and acquisitions and partnerships may not result in revenue in the near term, we believe these investments position us to increase our revenue over time. 28 Table of Contents Retain and grow existing business clients We rely on existing business clients for a significant portion of our revenue. As we improve our Software Platform and Apps, we can attract additional spend from these business clients. Our business clients include indie studio developers and some of the largest mobile advertising platforms in the world. We believe there is significant room for us to further expand our relationships with these clients and increase their usage of our Software Platform. We have invested in targeted sales and account-based marketing efforts to identify and showcase opportunities to business clients and plan to continue to do so in the future. In the past, our business clients have generally increased their usage of our Software Platform and Apps, and as a result, growth from existing business clients has been a primary driver of our revenue growth. We must continue to retain our existing business clients and expand their spend with us over time to continue to grow our revenue, increase profitability and drive greater cash flow. Add new business clients globally Our future success depends in part on our ability to acquire new business clients. We recently increased our focus on markets outside the United States to serve the needs of business clients globally. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, only 42% of our revenue from business clients was generated from outside of the United States. We believe that the global opportunity is significant and will continue to expand as developers and advertisers outside the United States adopt our Software Platform and advertise on our Apps. We also see opportunities to acquire new business clients outside of mobile gaming, as the capabilities of our Core Technologies and Software Platform are relevant to the broader mobile app ecosystem. We are investing in direct sales, product development, education, and other capabilities to drive increased awareness and adoption of our Software Platform and Apps, which investments may impact our profitability in the near term as we seek further scale. We must continue to acquire new business clients to grow our revenue, increase profitability, and drive greater cash flow. Optimization, growth, and expansion of our AppLovin Apps We plan to continue to invest in developing new Apps and enhancing existing Apps. Because our Apps are typically free to download and use, economically acquiring users and monetizing through advertising and IAPs is critical to the future success of our Apps. We plan to launch several new Apps per year, as well as continue to make investments by acquiring and partnering with studios in mobile gaming and other mobile app sectors. Given our expertise in app marketing, we are able to pursue a highly-optimized and scaled user acquisition investment playbook. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we invested $265.5 million in sales and marketing, a large percentage of which was invested in user acquisition to grow the number of users engaging with our Apps. We believe the scale, insights, and effective monetization strategies provided through our Software Platform and integrated business model allow us to optimize ad spend across our portfolio of Apps. We also invest in the growth of our Apps by improving in-game monetization, optimizing game economies and in-game conversion, and opt-in business services, such as creative services and localization. We must continue to optimize, grow, and expand our Apps portfolio to grow our revenue, increase profitability, and drive greater cash flow. Continued execution of strategic acquisitions and partnerships We intend to continue to make strategic acquisitions and enter into strategic partnerships to grow our portfolio of Apps and add complementary software and tools to our Core Technologies. Since the beginning of 2018, we have invested over $2 billion in 18 strategic acquisitions and partnerships with mobile app developers and for technologies to enhance our Core Technologies including the acquisition of Adjust GmbH, which closed in April 2021. We have been very successful in growing mobile apps that we have added to our Apps portfolio. We have also invested strategically to enhance our Core Technologies. For example, in 2018 we acquired MAX, an in-app bidding platform, which improves monetization on apps. 29 Table of Contents While we have a strong pipeline of strategic acquisition and partnership opportunities, we believe our future results of operations will be affected by our ability to continue to identify and execute such transactions that are accretive to our growth and profitability. Growth and structure of the mobile app ecosystem Our business and results of operations will be impacted by industry factors that drive overall performance of the mobile app ecosystem. The mobile app ecosystem has grown rapidly in recent years. We expect that any acceleration, or slowing, of this growth would affect our business and results of operations. In addition, even if the mobile app ecosystem continues to grow at its current rate, our ability to position ourselves within the market will impact our business and results of operations. Mobile app developers, including AppLovin, rely on third-party platforms, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play Store, among others, to distribute games, collect payments made for IAPs, and target users with relevant advertising. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. These third-party platforms have significant market power and discretion to set platform fees, select which apps to promote, and decide how much consumer information to provide to advertising networks that enable our Software Platform to target users with personalized and relevant advertising and allocate marketing campaigns in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Any changes made in the policies of third-party platforms could drive rapid change across the mobile app ecosystem. For example, in June 2020, Apple announced a plan to overhaul IDFA, which anonymously profiles users for targeted advertising, as part of a new application tracking transparency framework which began being rolled out in late April 2021 and, among other things, requires opt-in consent for certain types of tracking. We rely in part on IDFA to provide us with data that helps our Software Platform better market and monetize Apps and to the extent we are unable to utilize IDFA or a similar offering, our Software Platform may not be as effective, and we may not be able to continue to efficiently generate revenue for our Apps. New tools for developers, industry standards, and platforms may emerge in the future. We believe our focus on the mobile app ecosystem has allowed us to understand the needs of our business clients and our relentless innovation has enabled us to quickly adapt to changes in the industry and pioneer new solutions. We must continue to innovate and stay ahead of developments in the mobile app ecosystem in order for our business to succeed and our results of operations to continue to improve. Acquisition of Adjust On April 20, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Adjust GmbH (Adjust), a leading mobile app attribution, measurement and analytics company in Germany, in exchange for (i) $598.0 million in cash, subject to certain purchase price adjustments; (ii) convertible securities that automatically convert into an aggregate number of shares of our Class A common stock determined by dividing $352.0 million by the volume-weighted average trading price per share of our Class A common stock over any 10 consecutive full trading day period (chosen by the stockholder representative under the share purchase agreement) within 20 trading days commencing with and following April 15, 2021; and (iii) the assumption of up to $40.0 million in the aggregate of debt, accrued interest, and fees of Adjust, in each case upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the share purchase agreement. 30 Table of Contents Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting social distancing and shelter-in-place orders put in place around the world have caused widespread disruption in global economies, productivity, and financial markets and have altered the way in which we conduct our day-to-day business. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic we have temporarily closed our offices around the world, including our corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, and implemented travel restrictions. Our Software Platform and Apps do not require physical interaction, thus, our ability to meet the needs of our clients and users has not been materially affected. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and the extent to which the pandemic may impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations in the future remains uncertain. See the section titled Risk FactorsThe COVID-19 pandemic and responses thereto across the globe have altered how individuals interact with each other and affected how we and our business partners are operating, and the extent to which this situation will impact our future results of operations remains uncertain for additional information. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We collect Business Revenue from advertisers spending on our Software Platform and Apps. Business Revenue from our Software Platform is generated from our advertisers, typically on a performance-based, cost-per-install basis, then shared with our advertising publishers, typically on a cost per impression model. Business Revenue generated from our Apps comes from advertisers that purchase ad inventory from our diverse portfolio of Apps. Business Revenue from our Apps was 64% of total Business Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021. We generate Consumer Revenue from IAPs made by users within our Apps. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of third-party payment processing fees for distribution partners, amortization of acquired technology related intangible assets, and expenses associated with operating our network infrastructure. Third-party payment processing fees relate to Consumer Revenue. The fees for IAPs are processed and collected by third-party distribution partners. Network operating costs include bandwidth, energy, other equipment costs related to our co-located data centers and costs for third-party cloud service providers. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars over the long term as our business and revenue continue to grow. We also expect our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of user acquisition costs, other advertising expenses, personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in sales and marketing, and amortization of acquired user-related intangible assets, marketing programs, travel, customer service costs, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our customer base and increase brand awareness. As a result, we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to grow our customer base and increase brand awareness, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of product development costs, including personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in research and development, professional services costs related to development of new apps by third parties, consulting costs, regulatory compliance costs, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. We plan to continue to invest in research and development to continue to enhance our Core Technologies and Software Platform, and to improve existing games and develop new games. As a result, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to enhance our Core Technologies and Software Platform and improve our existing Apps and develop new Apps, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of costs incurred to support our business, including personnel-related expenses for salaries, employee benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in finance, accounting, legal, human resources and administration, professional services fees for legal, accounting, recruiting, and administrative services (including acquisition-related expenses), insurance, travel, and allocated facilities and information technology costs. 31 Table of Contents We plan to continue to invest in our general and administrative function to support the growth of our business. In addition, following the completion of this offering, we expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance and reporting obligations of a public company, increased insurance and investor relations expenses, and increased professional services fees (including acquisition-related expenses). As a result, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars. We also expect our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to fluctuate period-over-period in the near term as we invest to support the growth of our business, and to decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater scale. Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt. Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt consists primarily of loss related to debt extinguishment, interest expense associated with our outstanding debt, including accretion of debt discount, and changes in fair value of interest rate swap accounted for as a cash flow hedge related to the stream of variable interest payments associated with a portion of our outstanding debt. Other income, net. Other income, net, includes interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, gains and losses related to embedded derivatives and other financial instruments accounted for at fair value, and foreign currency exchange gains (losses), which consist primarily of remeasurement of transactions and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at the end of the period. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, impacts from acquisition restructuring, deduction benefits related to foreign-derived intangible income, future changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. Additionally, our effective tax rate can vary based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Revenue $ 603,877 $ 260,178 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (1)(2) 223,061 76,453 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 265,513 128,667 Research and development (1) 60,876 19,112 General and administrative (1) 42,962 10,810 Total costs and expenses 592,412 235,042 Income from operations 11,465 25,136 Other income (expense): Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt (35,010 ) (18,629 ) Other income, net 9,790 1,021 Total other expense (25,220 ) (17,608 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (13,755 ) 7,528 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (3,180 ) 2,864 Net income (loss) $ (10,575 ) $ 4,664 32 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 109 $ 29 Sales and marketing 1,819 452 Research and development 6,465 1,527 General and administrative 21,566 1,454 Total stock-based compensation $ 29,959 $ 3,462 (2) Includes amortization expense related to acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 82,185 $ 27,576 Sales and marketing 3,209 2,694 Total amortization expense related to acquired intangibles $ 85,394 $ 30,270 The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue (1) : Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 37 % 29 % Sales and marketing 44 % 49 % Research and development 10 % 7 % General and administrative 7 % 4 % Total costs and expenses 98 % 90 % Income from operations 2 % 10 % Other income (expense): Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt (6 )% (7 )% Other income, net 2 % 0 % Total other expense (4 )% (7 )% Income (loss) before income taxes (2 )% 3 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (1 )% 1 % Net income (loss) (2 )% 2 % (1) Totals of percentages of revenue may not foot due to rounding. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of Our Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % change 2021 2020 Business Revenue Apps $ 156,963 $ 99,749 57 % Business Revenue Software Platform 88,419 46,512 90 % Total Business Revenue 245,382 146,261 68 % Consumer Revenue 358,495 113,917 215 % Total Revenue $ 603,877 $ 260,178 132 % Total revenue increased by $343.7 million, or 132%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period due to increases in Business Revenue Software Platform of 90%, Business Revenue Apps of 57% and Consumer Revenue of 215%. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our Business Revenue increased by $99.1 million from the prior year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our Business Revenue from our Software Platform increased by $41.9 million from the prior year period primarily due to a 74% increase in installations while price per installation remained consistent with the prior year period. The increase in our Business Revenue from Apps of $57.2 million was primarily a result of increased advertising revenue from acquired Apps which contributed $33.2 million of the increase while our existing Apps and new Apps developed by our Owned and Partner Studios contributed the remaining increase. Usage of advertising inventory by our Owned Studios and Partner Studios represented 24% of installations during the three months ended March 31, 2021. We do not recognize Business Revenue from transactions with our Owned Studios and Partner Studios. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our Consumer Revenue increased by $244.6 million from the prior year period, primarily due to a 175% increase in the volume of in-app purchases, as well as a 14% increase in price per in-app purchase. Newly developed Apps contributed $131.5 million of the increase, while Apps acquired since March 31, 2020 generated $79.8 million of the increase, with the remaining increase from our existing Apps. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 223,061 $ 76,453 192 % Percentage of revenue 37 % 29 % Cost of revenue increased by $146.6 million, or 192%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a $72.9 million increase in third-party payment processing fees as a result of the growth in Consumer Revenue, a $54.6 million increase in amortization of acquired-technology driven by an increase in acquisition activity, and a $13.5 million increase in expenses associated with operating our network infrastructure driven by the growth in our operations. 34 Table of Contents Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 265,513 $ 128,667 106 % Percentage of revenue 44 % 49 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $136.8 million, or 106%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a $130.7 million increase in user acquisition costs. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 60,876 $ 19,112 219 % Percentage of revenue 10 % 7 % Research and development expenses increased by $41.8 million, or 219%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a $19.7 million increase in personnel-related expenses primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation due to higher fair value of our common stock and an increase in headcount and a $17.9 million increase in professional services costs related to development of new games by third parties. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 42,962 $ 10,810 297 % Percentage of revenue 7 % 4 % General and administrative expenses increased by $32.2 million, or 297%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a $20.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense largely driven by higher fair value of our common stock and a $9.3 million increase in other personnel related costs as a result of an increase of headcount to support our growth. Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt $ (35,010 ) $ (18,629 ) 88 % Percentage of revenue (6 )% (7 )% Interest expense and loss on settlement of debt increased by $16.4 million, or 88%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to a loss on the settlement of term loans of $16.9 million during the period. 35 Table of Contents Other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Other income, net $ 9,790 $ 1,021 859 % Percentage of revenue 2 % 0 % Other income, net increased by $8.8 million, or 859%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a fair value remeasurement gain of $6.6 million related to term loan embedded derivative, and an unrealized gain of $5.4 million related to marketable equity securities, which were partially offset by a $2.9 million third-party cost incurred for the amendment of term loans. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to 2021 % Change 2021 2020 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (3,180 ) $ 2,864 (211 )% Percentage of revenue (1 )% 1 % The change from $2.9 million of tax provision during the three months ended March 31, 2020, to $3.2 million of tax benefit during the three months ended in March 31, 2021 was primarily due to a net loss before taxes compared to a net income before taxes in the respective periods, and an establishment of deferred tax liability related to restructuring during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we financed our operations primarily through payments received from business clients using our Software Platform and advertising on our Apps, and from user IAPs from our Apps, and through net proceeds we received from the sales of our convertible preferred stock and borrowings made under our Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $761.1 million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents would be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; expansion of sales and marketing activities; timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to purchase hardware and software; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. For example, during the three months ended March 31, 2021, we received net debt proceeds, which increased our cash balance as of March 31, 2021 by $542.4 million. If additional financing from outside sources is required, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, the recent COVID-19 pandemic has caused a disruption in the global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital and negatively affect our liquidity in the future. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. On April 19, 2021, we completed our initial public offering, in which we sold 22,500,000 shares of Class A common stock at price to the public of $80.00 per share. We received aggregate net proceeds of $1.75 billion after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $47.2 million and offering expenses of $7.9 million subject to certain cost reimbursements. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 61,819 $ 45,687 Net cash used in investing activities (18,273 ) (54,699 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 400,374 33,479 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $61.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of a $10.6 million of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which included $88.8 million of amortization, depreciation and write-offs, $30.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $16.9 million of loss on settlement of debt, $11.2 million of net unrealized gains on fair value remeasurement of financial instruments, $4.3 million of amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, and $5.8 million of change in operating right of use asset partially offset by a $60.8 million of cash consumed by working capital. The increase in cash consumed by working capital was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets and decrease in operating lease liabilities partially offset by higher accounts payable. Net cash provided by operating activities was $45.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $4.7 million of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which included $32.3 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $3.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, $1.4 million of amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, $1.2 million of change in operating right of use asset and a $2.7 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital. The decrease in cash consumed by working capital was primarily driven by an increase in accounts payable and decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets partially offset by higher accounts receivable and lower other non-current liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $18.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, consisting of $4.2 million related to acquisitions, and $14.0 million in purchases of non-marketable investments and other. Net cash used in investing activities was $54.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily related to acquisitions. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $400.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $844.7 million of proceeds from debt issuance and $12.9 million proceeds from exercise of stock awards partially offset by $302.3 million of principal repayment of debt and $152.2 million of payment of deferred acquisition costs. Net cash provided by financing activities was $33.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $49.8 million of proceeds from debt issuance partially offset by $11.0 million of payment of deferred acquisition costs and $3.1 million of principal repayment of debt. Credit Agreement On August 15, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement which provided for senior secured term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $820.0 million (the Closing Term Loans) and a revolving credit facility of $50.0 million. On April 23, 2019, the Credit Agreement was amended to increase the senior secured term loan facility by $400.0 million, on terms identical to those applicable to the Closing Term Loans (together with the Closing Term Loans, the Initial Term Loans). On April 27, 2020, the Credit Agreement was further amended to modify certain negative covenants. On May 6, 2020, the Credit Agreement was further amended (the Third Amendment) to increase the senior secured term loan facility by an additional $300.0 million (the Third Amendment Term Loans). On October 27, 2020, the Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the aggregate principal amount of the revolving credit facility by an additional $540.0 million. On November 30, 2020, we borrowed $150.0 million under the revolving credit facility. 37 Table of Contents In February 2021, we amended the credit agreement to 1) increase the senior secured term loan facility by an aggregate principal amount of $597.8 million (the Fifth Amendment Term Loans, and together with the Initial Term Loans, the Term Loans), on terms identical to those applicable to the existing Initial Term Loans, the proceeds of which was partially used to repay in full the outstanding principal and accrued and unpaid interest of the Third Amendment Term Loans, totaling $298.2 million, in accordance with the pre-existing early redemption option in the credit agreement, and 2) increase the aggregate principal amount of the revolving credit facility by an additional $10.0 million, on terms identical to those applicable to the existing revolving credit facility. In connection with this amendment, we paid $0.8 million in fees to KKR Capital Markets LLC, who is affiliated with one of the Companys principal stockholders. On March 31, 2021, we drew down an additional $250.0 million from the Companys $600.0 million revolving credit facility. A lender under the revolving credit facility is an affiliate of KKR Denali, a principal stockholder of the Company. Following such draw down we had an aggregate amount of $400.0 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility, which was repaid in full with the net proceeds from the IPO in April 2021. See Note 8, Credit Agreement, in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. As of March 31, 2021, our total outstanding indebtedness under the credit agreement was $2.19 billion, consisting of $1.79 billion of outstanding term loans and $400.0 million of outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Contractual Obligations In April 2021, we completed two separate transactions to acquire certain mobile game Apps from two foreign-based independent mobile game developers in exchange for an aggregate upfront cash consideration of $300.0 million and potential future earnout payments. With respect to the first transaction, the potential future earn-out payments are contingent on the revenue generated by the acquired game Apps exceeding a certain revenue threshold, which will be measured and payable (if applicable) each year for four years from the date of the transaction. With respect to the second transaction, the potential future earn-out payments will be determined in a manner similar to the first transaction, in addition to a potential one-time earn-out payment of $50.0 million contingent on the achievement of a certain monthly revenue milestone within the four years following the date of the transaction. Because these contingent consideration arrangements are based on the success of relevant Apps and are not guaranteed, we do not expect our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by the payment of amounts under such arrangements. In May 2021, we amended a certain agreement with a cloud service provider to increase the aggregate spend commitment from $130.0 million to $300.0 million through May 2026. With the exception of the transactions described above and except for scheduled payments from the ongoing business, there were no material changes in our commitments under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 as disclosed in our final prospectus relating to our initial public offering dated April 14, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenue, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2021, as compared to those disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our final prospectus filed with the SEC on April 7, 2021 (our Prospectus) pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). 38 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.