Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes, and for a full understanding of Applieds results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated condensed financial statements and notes included in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes for the fiscal year ended October 27, 2019 contained in the Companys Form 10-K filed on December 13, 2019. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples of forward-looking statements include those regarding Applieds future financial or operating results, customer demand and spending, end-use demand, Applied's and market and industry trends and outlooks, the impact of the coronavirus COVID-19 outbreak on Applieds operations and financial results, cash flows and cash deployment strategies, declaration of dividends, share repurchases, business strategies and priorities, costs and cost controls, products, competitive positions, managements plans and objectives for future operations, research and development, strategic acquisitions and investments, including the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric Corporation (Kokusai Electric), growth opportunities, restructuring activities, backlog, working capital, liquidity, investment portfolio and policies, taxes, supply chain, manufacturing, properties, legal proceedings and claims, and other statements that are not historical facts, as well as their underlying assumptions. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as may, will, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, potential and continue, the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors, including those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, below and elsewhere in this report. These and many other factors could affect Applieds future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Forward-looking statements are based on managements estimates, projections and expectations as of the date hereof, and Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such statements. 32 Table of Contents Overview Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries. Applieds customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, liquid crystal and organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Each of Applieds businesses is subject to variable industry conditions, as demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on supply and demand for chips, display technologies, and other electronic devices, as well as other factors, such as global economic and market conditions, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes. Applied operates in three reportable segments: Semiconductor Systems, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect Applieds operations is set forth under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Product development and manufacturing activities occur primarily in the United States, Europe, Israel, and Asia. Applieds broad range of equipment and service products are highly technical and are sold primarily through a direct sales force. Applieds results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays. While certain existing technologies may be adapted to new requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely different technological approach. The timing of customer investment in manufacturing equipment is also affected by the timing of next-generation process development, and the timing of capacity expansion to meet end-market demand. In light of these conditions, Applieds results can vary significantly year-over-year, as well as quarter-over-quarter. The following table presents certain significant measurements for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Net sales $ 4,162 $ 3,753 $ 409 Gross margin 44.6 % 44.4 % 0.2 points Operating income $ 1,042 $ 908 $ 134 Operating margin 25.0 % 24.2 % 0.8 points Net income $ 892 $ 771 $ 121 Earnings per diluted share $ 0.96 $ 0.80 $ 0.16 Fiscal 2020 and 2019 contain 52 weeks each, and the first three months of fiscal 2020 and 2019 each contained 13 weeks. Semiconductor equipment customers continued to make strategic investments in new technology transitions during the first three months of fiscal 2020. Foundry and logic spending increased, compared to the same period in the prior year, led by customer investment in both advanced and mature foundry-logic nodes. Spending by memory customers, compared to the same period in the prior year, was lower as they delayed new capacity additions and lowered their fab utilization rates in response to excess industry supply and inventory levels. Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. Applied saw modest growth in its services business driven by an increase in the installed base of equipment and continued growth in revenues from long-term service agreements compared to the same period in the prior year. Applieds display and adjacent markets revenue declined, compared to the same period in the prior year, due to continued weak demand for display manufacturing equipment for mobile products and TVs. The recent coronavirus COVID-19 outbreak in China has impacted and could further impact Applieds operations, customers and suppliers as a result of quarantines, facility closures, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. Based on current facts, the coronavirus COVID-19 outbreak is not expected to have a material impact on Applieds financial results for fiscal year 2020, though the timing of the revenue within the year is expected to change. The situation remains fluid and Applied is actively managing its responses in collaboration with its employees, customers and suppliers. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages) Semiconductor Systems $ 2,814 68 % $ 2,268 60 % 24 % Applied Global Services 997 24 % 962 26 % 4 % Display and Adjacent Markets 332 8 % 507 14 % (35) % Corporate and Other 19 % 16 % 19 % Total $ 4,162 100 % $ 3,753 100 % 11 % For the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by decreased customer investments in display manufacturing equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales. Net sales by geographic region, determined by the location of customers facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages) China $ 1,272 31 % $ 968 26 % 31 % Korea 508 12 % 572 15 % (11) % Taiwan 1,365 33 % 656 18 % 108 % Japan 351 8 % 651 17 % (46) % Southeast Asia 72 2 % 160 4 % (55) % Asia Pacific 3,568 86 % 3,007 80 % 19 % United States 441 10 % 450 12 % (2) % Europe 153 4 % 296 8 % (48) % Total $ 4,162 100 % $ 3,753 100 % 11 % The changes in net sales in all regions in the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending. The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan and China for the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment. In addition, the change in net sales in China was partially offset by a decrease in customer spending in display manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in all other regions for the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment. 34 Table of Contents Gross Margin Gross margins for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change Gross margin 44.6 % 44.4 % 0.2 points Gross margin in the three months ended January 26, 2020 increased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increase in net sales and favorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019 included $31 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Research, Development and Engineering Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) expenses for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions) Research, development and engineering $ 552 $ 516 $ 36 Applieds future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides. Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle. Most of Applieds existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies, either in existing or new product areas, to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market. Management believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced designs. Applied has maintained and intends to continue its commitment to investing in RD&E in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. The increase in RD&E expenses during the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to additional headcount and higher expense associated with share-based compensation and variable compensation. This increase reflects Applieds ongoing investment in product development initiatives, consistent with the Companys strategy. Applied continued to prioritize existing RD&E investments in technical capabilities and critical research and development programs in current and new markets, with a focus on semiconductor technologies. RD&E expenses during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019 included $35 million and $24 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Marketing and Selling Marketing and selling expenses for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions) Marketing and selling $ 135 $ 131 $ 4 Marketing and selling expenses increased slightly in the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in fiscal 2019 primarily due to higher share-based compensation expense. Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019 included $11 million and $8 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 35 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative (G&A) expenses for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions) General and administrative $ 129 $ 110 $ 19 G&A expenses in the three months ended January 26, 2020 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher expense associated with business combination activities, variable compensation, and share-based compensation. G&A expenses during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019 included $16 million and $11 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Interest Expense and Interest and Other Income (Loss), net Interest expense and interest and other income (loss), net for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions) Interest expense $ 59 $ 60 $ (1) Interest and other income, net $ 22 $ 40 $ (18) Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with issued senior unsecured notes. Interest expense in the three months ended January 26, 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same period in the prior year. Interest and other income, net in the three months ended January 26, 2020 decreased compared to the same period in fiscal 2019, primarily driven by higher unrealized gains on equity investment securities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 113 $ 117 $ (4) Effective tax rate 11.2 % 13.2 % (2) points Applieds provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes in income tax laws and the resolution of prior years income tax filings. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The Tax Act includes provisions that impact Applied starting in fiscal 2019, including a provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). As a result, Applied realized a tax benefit of $46 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. On June 14, 2019, the U.S. government released regulations that significantly affect how the GILTI provision of the Tax Act is interpreted. Accordingly, Applied reversed the tax benefit that had been realized in the first half of fiscal 2019. Applieds effective tax rates for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were 11.2 percent and 13.2 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to changes in uncertain tax positions and excess tax benefits from share-based compensation. This was partially offset by an increase in tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 due to the tax benefit taken in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 for GILTI prior to the release of regulations on June 14, 2019 which resulted in the benefit no longer being realizable. 36 Table of Contents Segment Information Applied reports financial results in three segments: Semiconductor Systems, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. A description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each reportable segment can be found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. The Corporate and Other category includes revenues from products, as well as costs of products sold, for fabricating solar photovoltaic cells and modules and certain operating expenses that are not allocated to its reportable segments and are managed separately at the corporate level. These operating expenses include costs for share-based compensation; certain management, finance, legal, human resource, and RD&E functions provided at the corporate level; and unabsorbed information technology and occupancy. In addition, Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustments related to restructuring actions, unless these actions pertain to a specific reportable segment. The results for each reportable segment are discussed below. Semiconductor Systems Segment The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips. Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions. Development efforts are focused on solving customers key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes. Semiconductor equipment customers continued to make strategic investments in new technology transitions during the first three months of fiscal 2020. Foundry and logic spending increased, compared to the same period in the prior year, led by customer investment in both advanced and mature foundry-logic nodes. Spending by memory customers, compared to the to the same period in the prior year, was lower as they delayed new capacity additions and lowered their fab utilization rates in response to excess industry supply and inventory levels. Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. Certain significant measures for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages and ratios) Net sales $ 2,814 $ 2,268 $ 546 24 % Operating income $ 915 $ 631 $ 284 45 % Operating margin 32.5 % 27.8 % 4.7 points Net sales for Semiconductor Systems by end use application for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Foundry, logic and other 68 % 44 % Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) 15 % 21 % Flash memory 17 % 35 % 100 % 100 % Net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2020 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher spending from foundry, logic and other customers, partially offset by decreased spending from memory customers. Operating margin for the three months ended January 26, 2020 increased compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher net sales and favorable changes in customer and product mix, partially offset by increased RD&E expenses. Two customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segments net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 56 percent of this segments total net sales, in the three months ended January 26, 2020, with one customer accounting for approximately 39 percent of this segment's total net sales. 37 Table of Contents The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Semiconductor Systems segment for one or more of the periods presented. Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages) Taiwan $ 1,179 42% $ 469 21% 151 % Applied Global Services Segment The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products. Demand for Applied Global Services service solutions are driven by Applieds large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs. Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Companys ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements. Certain significant measures for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages and ratios) Net sales $ 997 $ 962 $ 35 4 % Operating income $ 278 $ 285 $ (7) (2) % Operating margin 27.9 % 29.6 % (1.7) points Net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2020 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending on comprehensive service agreements and legacy systems, partially offset by lower customer spending on semiconductor spares. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 26, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year decreased primarily due to an increase in headcount to support business growth. In the three months ended January 26, 2020, three customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segments total net sales. There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented. 38 Table of Contents Display and Adjacent Markets Segment The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems. The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices. The market environment for Applieds Display and Adjacent Markets segment was characterized by weak demand for manufacturing equipment for mobile products and TVs, compared to the same periods in the prior year. In addition, uneven spending patterns by customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment can cause significant fluctuations quarter-over-quarter, as well as year-over-year. Certain significant measures for the periods presented were as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages and ratios) Net sales $ 332 $ 507 $ (175) (35) % Operating income $ 38 $ 115 $ (77) (67) % Operating margin 11.4 % 22.7 % (11.3) points Net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2020 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 26, 2020 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. In the three months ended January 26, 2020, four customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segments net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 82 percent of this segments total net sales, with one customer accounting for approximately 32 percent of net sales. The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Display and Adjacent Markets segment for one or more of the periods presented: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Change (In millions, except percentages) China $ 304 92% $ 477 94% (36)% 39 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Applieds cash, cash equivalents and investments consist of the following: January 26, 2020 October 27, 2019 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,424 $ 3,129 Short-term investments 536 489 Long-term investments 1,713 1,703 Total cash, cash-equivalents and investments $ 5,673 $ 5,321 Sources and Uses of Cash A summary of cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities is as follows: Three Months Ended January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 987 $ 834 Cash used in investing activities $ (162) $ (66) Cash used in financing activities $ (530) $ (1,016) Operating Activities Cash from operating activities for the three months ended January 26, 2020 was $987 million, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components. Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes. Cash provided by operating activities increased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher cash collections and lower payments to suppliers and for variable compensation, offset by higher income tax payments. Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers. Applied sells its accounts receivable without recourse. Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions. The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. Applied sold $206 million and $464 million of accounts receivable during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019, respectively. Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019. Applieds working capital was $6.2 billion as of January 26, 2020 and $5.8 billion as of October 27, 2019. Days sales outstanding for the three months ended January 26, 2020 and January 27, 2019 were 59 days. Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms and remained unchanged primarily due to higher revenue, offset by lower accounts receivable factoring compared to the same period in the prior year. Investing Activities Applied used $162 million of cash in investing activities during the three months ended January 26, 2020. Capital expenditures totaled $102 million and purchases of investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments were $60 million during the three months ended January 26, 2020. Applieds investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities. Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies. Financing Activities Applied used $530 million of cash in financing activities during the three months ended January 26, 2020, consisting primarily of repurchases of common stock of $200 million, cash dividends to stockholders of $192 million and tax withholding payments for vested equity awards of $153 million. 40 Table of Contents In December 2019, Applieds Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend, payable in March 2020, in the amount of $0.21 per share. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applieds financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applieds stockholders. Applied has credit facilities for unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to $1.6 billion, of which $1.5 billion is comprised of a committed revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that is scheduled to expire in September 2021. This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of January 26, 2020. Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $73 million are with Japanese banks. Applieds ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen. In August 2019, Applied entered into a term loan credit agreement with a group of lenders. Under the agreement, the lenders have committed to make an unsecured term loan to Applied of up to $2.0 billion to finance in part Applieds planned acquisition of all outstanding shares of Kokusai Electric, to pay related transaction fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes. The commitments of the lenders to make the term loan will terminate if the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) are not consummated on or before June 30, 2020, which date may be extended by three months on two separate occasions if, on the applicable date, the only remaining conditions to closing relate to required regulatory approvals. The term loan, if advanced, will bear interest at one of two rates selected by Applied, plus an applicable margin, which varies according to Applieds public debt credit ratings, and must be repaid in full on the third anniversary of the funding date of the term loan. No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities at both January 26, 2020 and October 27, 2019, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities. In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion. As of January 26, 2020, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future. Applied had senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $5.4 billion outstanding as of January 26, 2020. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional discussion of existing debt. Applied may seek to refinance its existing debt and may incur additional indebtedness depending on Applieds capital requirements and the availability of financing. In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of January 26, 2020, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $105 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements. Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit. As of January 26, 2020, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $150 million to cover these arrangements. Others On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act requires a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The transition tax expense is payable in installments over eight years, with eight percent due in each of the first five years starting with fiscal 2018. As of January 26, 2020, Applied has $938 million of total payments remaining, payable in installments in the next seven years. Before the Tax Act, U.S. income tax had not been provided for certain unrepatriated earnings that were considered indefinitely reinvested. Income tax is now provided for all unrepatriated earnings. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report. 41 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applieds Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds consolidated financial statements and that requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies and estimates: Revenue Recognition A pplied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services (performance obligations) are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Applied performs the following five steps to determine when to recognize revenue: (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. Management uses judgment to identify performance obligations within a contract and to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group. Judgment is also used in interpreting commercial terms and determining when transfer of control occurs. Moreover, judgment is used to estimate the contracts transaction price and allocate it to each performance obligation. Any material changes in the identification of performance obligations, determination and allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations, and determination of when transfer of control occurs to the customer, could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory Valuation Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference. Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach. Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Under the income approach, Applied estimates the fair value based on discounted cash flow method. The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period. Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting units weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting units cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting units target capital structure. In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows. The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applieds current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective. Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting units size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies. 43 Table of Contents Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets. Indicators of potential impairment include, but are not limited to, challenging economic conditions, an unfavorable industry or economic environment or other severe decline in market conditions. Such conditions could have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates used for the fair value calculation, resulting in an unexpected goodwill impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment. Income Taxes Applieds provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes to income tax laws and the resolution of prior years income tax filings. Applied recognizes a current tax liability for the estimated amount of income tax payable on tax returns for the current fiscal year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized. Applied recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Any changes in judgment related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applieds provision for income taxes in the quarter in which such change occurs. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applieds provision for income taxes. The calculation of Applieds provision for income taxes and effective tax rate involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applieds expectations could have an adverse material impact on Applieds results of operations and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Results Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Companys operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program. Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors ability to review the Companys business from the same perspective as the Companys management and facilitate comparisons of this periods results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applieds ongoing operating performance. The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments. On a non-GAAP basis, the tax effect related to share-based compensation is recognized ratably over the fiscal year. Additionally, non-GAAP results exclude estimated discrete income tax expense items associated with U.S. tax legislation. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. 45 Table of Contents The following tables present a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted consolidated results: APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS Three Months Ended (In millions, except percentages) January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Non-GAAP Adjusted Gross Profit Reported gross profit - GAAP basis $ 1,858 $ 1,665 Certain items associated with acquisitions 1 9 10 Non-GAAP adjusted gross profit $ 1,867 $ 1,675 Non-GAAP adjusted gross margin 44.9 % 44.6 % Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income Reported operating income - GAAP basis $ 1,042 $ 908 Certain items associated with acquisitions 1 13 14 Acquisition integration and deal costs 13 3 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income $ 1,068 $ 925 Non-GAAP adjusted operating margin 25.7 % 24.6 % Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Income Reported net income - GAAP basis $ 892 $ 771 Certain items associated with acquisitions 1 13 14 Acquisition integration and deal costs 13 3 Impairment (gain on sale) of strategic investments, net 2 (2) Loss (gain) on strategic investments, net 2 (10) Income tax effect of share-based compensation 2 (33) (5) Income tax effect of changes in applicable U.S. tax laws 3 (24) Income tax effects related to amortization of intra-entity intangible asset transfers 21 (28) Resolution of prior years income tax filings and other tax items (1) 59 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 4 (5) 1 Non-GAAP adjusted net income $ 904 $ 779 1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets. 2 GAAP basis tax benefit related to share-based compensation is recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis. 3 Charges to income tax provision related to a one-time transition tax as a result of U.S. tax legislation. 4 Adjustment to provision for income taxes related to non-GAAP adjustments reflected in income before income taxes. 46 Table of Contents APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS Three Months Ended (In millions, except per share amounts) January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Non-GAAP Adjusted Earnings Per Diluted Share Reported earnings per diluted share - GAAP basis $ 0.96 $ 0.80 Certain items associated with acquisitions 0.01 0.01 Acquisition integration and deal costs 0.01 Loss (gain) on strategic investments, net (0.01) Income tax effect of share-based compensation (0.03) Income tax effect of changes in applicable U.S. tax laws (0.02) Income tax effects related to amortization of intra-entity intangible asset transfers 0.03 (0.03) Resolution of prior years income tax filings and other tax items 0.06 Non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share $ 0.98 $ 0.81 Weighted average number of diluted shares 927 965 47 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted segment results: APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS Three Months Ended (In millions, except percentages) January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Semiconductor Systems Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income Reported operating income - GAAP basis $ 915 $ 631 Certain items associated with acquisitions 1 10 11 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income $ 925 $ 642 Non-GAAP adjusted operating margin 32.9 % 28.3 % AGS Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income Reported operating income - GAAP basis $ 278 $ 285 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income $ 278 $ 285 Non-GAAP adjusted operating margin 27.9 % 29.6 % Display and Adjacent Markets Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income Reported operating income - GAAP basis $ 38 $ 115 Certain items associated with acquisitions 1 3 3 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income $ 41 $ 118 Non-GAAP adjusted operating margin 12.3 % 23.3 % 1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets. Note: The reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted segment results above does not include certain revenues, costs of products sold and operating expenses that are reported within corporate and other and included in consolidated operating income. 48 Table of Contents