Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the subsection entitled Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively Apple or the Company) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone , iPad , Mac , iPod , Apple TV , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac OS X operating systems, iCloud , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , App Store SM , iBookstore SM , and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses (SMB), and education, enterprise and government customers. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented in this Form 10-K is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977. Business Strategy The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative design. The Company believes continual investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products and technologies. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. As part of the iTunes Store, the Companys App Store and iBookstore allow customers to discover and download applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through iOS devices, namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch . In January 2011, the Company opened the Mac App Store to allow customers to easily discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. The Companys strategy also includes expanding its distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. 1 Consumer and Small and Mid-Sized Business The Company believes a high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the Companys products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain customers. The Company sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of product expertise, integration and support services. The Companys retail stores are typically located at high-traffic locations in quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. By operating its own stores and locating them in desirable high-traffic locations, the Company is better positioned to ensure a high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing of the Companys products and related solutions. To that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes to accommodate market-specific demands. The Company believes providing direct contact with its customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training. The stores offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software, and other accessories and peripherals that complement the Companys products. Education Throughout its history, the Company has been committed to delivering solutions to help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction can result in higher levels of student achievement and has designed a range of products, services and programs to address the needs of education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution and accessibility of education related materials through iTunes U, a platform that allows students and teachers to share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products to the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. Enterprise and Government The Company also sells its hardware and software products to enterprise and government customers in each of its geographic segments. The Companys products are deployed in these markets because of their power, productivity, ease of use and the simplicity of seamless integration into information technology environments. The Companys products are compatible with thousands of third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment of custom applications as well as remote device administration. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company has determined that its reportable operating segments, which are generally based on the nature and location of its customers, consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail. The results of the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments do not include the results of the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores worldwide. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading Segment Operating Performance, and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 8, Segment Information and Geographic Data. 2 Products The Company offers a range of mobile communication and media devices, personal computing products, and portable digital music players, as well as a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and third-party hardware and software products. In addition, the Company offers its own software products, including iOS, the Companys proprietary mobile operating system; Mac OS X, the Companys proprietary operating system software for the Mac; server software and application software for consumer, SMB, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Companys primary products are discussed below. iPhone iPhone combines a mobile phone, an iPod, and an Internet communications device in a single handheld product. Based on the Companys Multi-Touch user interface, iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps and is compatible with both Macs and Windows-based computers. iPhone automatically syncs content from users iTunes libraries, as well as contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video files, as well as a variety of other digital content and applications. In October 2011, the Company launched iPhone 4S, its latest version of iPhone, which includes Siri, a voice activated intelligent assistant. In addition to the Companys own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible accessories are available through the Companys online and retail stores and from third parties. iPad iPad is a multi-purpose mobile device for browsing the web, reading and sending email, viewing photos, watching videos, listening to music, playing games, reading e-books and more. iPad is based on the Companys Multi-Touch technology and allows customers to connect with their applications and content in a more interactive way. iPad allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video files, as well as a variety of other digital content and applications. In March 2011, the Company introduced iPad 2, its second-generation iPad. In addition to the Companys own iPad accessories, third-party iPad compatible accessories are available through the Companys online and retail stores and from third parties. Mac Hardware Products The Company offers a range of personal computing products including desktop and portable computers, related devices and peripherals, and third-party hardware products. The Companys Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the Mac OS X Lion operating system and the iLife suite of software for creation and management of digital photography, music, movies, DVDs and websites. The Companys desktop computers include iMac , Mac Pro and Mac mini. The iMac desktop computer has an all-in-one design that incorporates a display, processor, graphics card, storage, memory and other components inside a single enclosure. The Mac Pro desktop computer is targeted at business and professional customers and is designed to meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs of the most demanding Mac user. The Mac mini is a desktop computer in a compact enclosure. The Companys portable computers include MacBook Pro and MacBook Air . MacBook Pro is a portable computer designed for professionals and consumers. MacBook Air is an ultra-slim portable computer designed for professionals and consumers. iPod The Companys iPod line of portable digital music and media players includes iPod touch, iPod nano , iPod shuffle and iPod classic . All iPods work with iTunes. In addition to the Companys own iPod accessories, third-party iPod compatible accessories are available, through the Companys online and retail stores or from third parties. 3 The iPod touch, based on iOS, is a flash-memory-based iPod with a widescreen display and a Multi-Touch user interface. iPod touch allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video content, as well as a variety of digital applications. The iPod nano is a flash-memory-based iPod that features the Companys Multi-Touch interface allowing customers to navigate their music collection by tapping or swiping the display. The iPod nano features a polished aluminum and glass enclosure with a built-in clip. The iPod shuffle is a flash-memory-based iPod that features a clickable control pad to control music playback and VoiceOver technology enabling customers to hear song titles, artists and playlist names. The iPod classic is a hard-drive based portable digital music and video player. iTunes iTunes is an application that supports the purchase, download, organization and playback of digital audio and video files and is available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. iTunes 10 is the latest version of iTunes and features AirPlay wireless music playback, Genius Mixes, Home Sharing, and improved syncing functionality with iOS devices. iTunes is integrated with the iTunes Store , a service that allows customers to discover, purchase, rent, and download digital content and applications. The iTunes Store includes the App Store and iBookstore. The App Store allows customers to discover and download applications, and the iBookstore features electronic books from major and independent publishers and allows customers to preview and buy books for their iOS devices. Customers can access the App Store through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through an iOS device. The iBookstore is accessed through the iBooks application on an iOS device. Mac App Store In January 2011, the Company opened the Mac App Store allowing customers to discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Mac App Store offers applications in education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories. The Companys Mac OS X operating system software and iLife and iWork application software are also available on the Mac App Store. iCloud In October 2011, the Company launched iCloud, its new cloud service, which stores music, photos, applications, contacts, calendars, and documents and wirelessly pushes them to multiple iOS devices, Macs and Windows-based computers. iClouds features include iTunes in the Cloud, Photo Stream, Documents in the Cloud, Contacts, Calendar, Mail, automatic downloads and purchase history for applications and iBooks, and iCloud Backup. Users can sign up for free access to iCloud using a device running iOS 5 or a Mac running Mac OS X Lion. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers a range of software products for consumer, SMB, education, enterprise and government customers, including the Companys proprietary iOS and Mac OS X operating system software; server software; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software iOS iOS is the Companys mobile operating system that serves as the foundation for iOS devices. In October 2011, the Company released iOS 5, which supports iCloud and includes new features such as Notification Center, a way to view and manage notifications in one place; iMessage, a messaging service that allows users to send text messages, photos and videos between iOS devices; and Newsstand, a way to purchase and organize newspaper and magazine subscriptions. 4 Mac OS X Mac OS X, the operating system for Macs, is built on an open-source UNIX-based foundation. Mac OS X Lion is the eighth major release of Mac OS X and became available in July 2011. Mac OS X Lion includes support for new Multi-Touch gestures; iCloud integration; system-wide support for full screen applications; Mission Control, a way to view everything running on a users Mac; the Mac App Store; Launchpad, a new home for a users applications; and a redesigned Mail application. Application Software iLife iLife 11 is the latest version of the Companys consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto , iMovie , iDVD , GarageBand , and iWeb. iPhoto is the Companys consumer-oriented digital photo application and iMovie is the Companys consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iDVD is the Companys consumer-oriented software application that enables customers to turn iMovie files, QuickTime files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs. GarageBand is the Companys consumer-oriented music creation application that allows customers to play, record and create music. iWeb allows customers to create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and to customize websites using editing tools. iWork iWork 09 is the latest version of the Companys integrated productivity suite designed to help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork 09 includes Pages 09 for word processing and page layout, Keynote 09 for presentations, and Numbers 09 for spreadsheets. The Company also has a Multi-Touch version of each iWork application designed specifically for use on iOS devices. Other Application Software The Company also sells various other application software, including Final Cut Pro , Logic Studio , Logic Express 9, Logic Studio Pro, and its FileMaker Pro database software. Displays & Peripheral Products The Company manufactures the Apple LED Cinema Display and Thunderbolt Display. The Company also sells a variety of Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible peripheral products, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Apple TV Apple TV allows customers to watch movies and television shows on their high definition television. Content from iTunes, Netflix, YouTube, and Flickr as well as music, photos, videos, and podcasts from a Mac or Windows-based computer can also be wirelessly streamed to a television through Apple TV. With the release of iCloud in October 2011, content purchased on Apple TV can be re-downloaded on iOS devices. Product Support and Services AppleCare offers a range of support options for the Companys customers. These options include assistance that is built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan (APP). APP is a fee-based service that typically includes two to three years of phone support and hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources. 5 Markets and Distribution The Companys customers are primarily in the consumer, SMB, and education, enterprise and government markets. The Company uses a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels, such as its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of integration and support services, and product expertise. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2011 or 2010. One of the Companys customers accounted for 11% of net sales in 2009. Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and the Company is confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of its business. These markets are characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use of mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and other digital electronic devices. The Companys competitors who sell mobile devices and personal computers based on other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins to gain or maintain market share. The Companys financial condition and operating results can be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on gross margins. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product features, relative price/performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and peripherals ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to mobile communication and media devices. These industries are highly competitive and include several large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition in these industries to intensify significantly as competitors attempt to imitate some of the features of the Companys products and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These industries are characterized by aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The Companys digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer music and video services. The Company believes it offers superior innovation and integration of the entire solution including the hardware (iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution of digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore and Mac App Store). Some of the Companys current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the Companys offerings. The Companys future financial condition and operating results depend on the Companys ability to continue to develop and offer new innovative products and services in each of the markets it competes in. 6 Supply of Components Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, a number of components are currently obtained from single or limited sources, which subjects the Company to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. In addition, the Company has entered into various agreements for the supply of components; however there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants in the mobile communication and media device, and personal computer industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company also uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of these industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. If the Companys supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Companys business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers concentrated on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. Substantially all of the Companys hardware products are manufactured by outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. Certain of these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers of components and manufacturer for many of the Companys products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Companys operating results could be adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments. The Companys purchase commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods up to 150 days. Research and Development Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and to expand the range of its product offerings through research and development, licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Total research and development expense was $2.4 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights to patents and copyrights relating to certain aspects of its iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. The Company has registered or has applied for trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a number of foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. 7 The Company regularly files patent applications to protect inventions arising from its research and development, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents in the U.S. and worldwide. The Company holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single patent or copyright is solely responsible for protecting the Companys products. The Company believes the duration of its patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. Due to the fast pace of innovation and product development, the Companys products are often obsolete before the patents related to them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to them are even granted. Many of the Companys products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods, based upon past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained at all. Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Companys products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The U.S. represents the Companys largest geographic market. Approximately 39% of the Companys net sales in 2011 came from sales to customers inside the U.S. Final assembly of the Companys products is currently performed in the Companys manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by outsourcing partners, primarily located in Asia. The supply and manufacture of a number of components is performed by sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Single-sourced outsourcing partners in Asia perform final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Part II, Item 7 and Item 8 of this Form 10-K and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 8, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales in its first fiscal quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due to increased holiday seasonal demand. This historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Companys future net sales or financial performance. Warranty The Company offers a limited parts and labor warranty on most of its hardware products. The basic warranty period is typically one year from the date of purchase by the original end-user. The Company also offers a 90-day basic warranty for its service parts used to repair the Companys hardware products. In addition, consumers may purchase the APP, which extends service coverage on many of the Companys hardware products in most of its major markets. Backlog In the Companys experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of or immediately following new product introductions as customers anticipate shortages. Backlog is often reduced once customers 8 believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Companys ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Employees As of September 24, 2011, the Company had approximately 60,400 full-time equivalent employees and an additional 2,900 full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on the Companys website at www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Global economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Companys operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Companys products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Companys expectations because the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside the U.S. to offset the effect of a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Companys products and services and the Companys financial condition and operating results. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on the Companys business, including the insolvency or financial instability of outsourcing partners or suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Companys products; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and 9 changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Companys financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Global markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Companys products and services compete in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research and development and as such, the Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. By contrast, many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if other companies infringe on the Companys intellectual property, the Companys ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based on the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition as competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt to imitate the Companys product features and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company has entered the mobile communications and media device markets, and some of its competitors in these markets have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and/or experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Companys approach to providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. The Companys financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Companys ability to continually improve iOS and iOS devices in order to maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company is the only authorized maker of hardware using Mac OS X, which has a minority market share in the personal computer market. This market is dominated by computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. In the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and a larger installed customer base. Consolidation in this market has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Companys existing products. The Companys financial condition and operating results depend substantially on its ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain its functional and design advantages. 10 There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including but not limited to timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on its financial condition and operating results. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its provisions related to inventory, other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes. Such charges could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, inventory component prepayments, in each case based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods up to 150 days. Because the Companys markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. The Companys financial condition and operating results have been in the past and could be in the future materially adversely affected by the Companys ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into various agreements for the supply of components; there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. The follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Companys suppliers, referred to in Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company above, also could affect the Companys ability to obtain components. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect the Companys 11 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2011, largely due to a higher mix of new and innovative products with flat or reduced pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The Company and other participants in the mobile communication and media device, and personal computer industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of these industries. The Companys new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. If the supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by a few outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Companys flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. The Company also relies on its partners to adhere to the Companys supplier code of conduct. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with outsourcing partners or otherwise, or material violations of the supplier code of conduct, could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. The supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Single-sourced outsourcing partners in Asia perform final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. If manufacturing or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason including, but not limited to, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company relies on third-party intellectual property and digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of the Companys products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based on past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms. There is however no assurance that the necessary licenses could be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain or renew critical licenses on reasonable terms, its financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The Company also contracts with third parties to offer their digital content through the iTunes Store. The licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the 12 Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Companys access to, or increase the cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Companys financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Many third-party content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management (DRM) and other security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Companys content providers. The Companys future results could be materially adversely affected if it is found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. Technology companies, including many of the Companys competitors, frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As the Company has grown, the intellectual property rights claims against it have increased and may continue to increase. In particular, the Companys cellular enabled products compete with mobile communication and media device companies that hold significant patent portfolios, and the number of patent claims against the Company has significantly increased. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in a number of U.S. jurisdictions and before the U.S. International Trade Commission, as well as internationally in Europe and Asia. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or the merits of any patent claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation. If the Company is found to infringe one or more patents, it may be required to pay substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requiring it to pay royalties to a third-party, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether it can develop non-infringing technology. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Companys operating expenses. In managements opinion there is not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies, including matters related to infringement of intellectual property rights. However, the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. The Companys future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Companys products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Companys products, customers may choose not to buy the Companys products, which could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. 13 With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part on the developers perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Companys products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Companys minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Companys prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Companys products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect to iOS devices, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications, which are distributed through a single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence of multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance of third-party applications by the Companys customers, thereby causing developers to reduce or curtail development for the iOS platform. In addition, iOS devices are subject to rapid technological change, and, if third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result in dissatisfied customers. As with applications for the Companys Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing software for the Companys products rather than its competitors products, including devices that use competing platforms. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Companys devices may suffer. The Companys future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and value-added resellers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and third-party products in most of its major markets directly to education customers, cellular network carriers distribution channels, resellers and consumers through its online and retail stores. Carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone typically subsidize users purchase of the device. There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Companys agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. Many resellers have narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Companys direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Companys products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of the Companys products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. The Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Companys products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Companys products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products. 14 The Companys Retail business has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The Companys retail stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Companys more typical retail stores. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Companys control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, macro-economic factors that could have a negative effect on general retail activity, as well as the Companys inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with its existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Companys ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the Companys due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. They may materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Companys products and services experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with the softwares intended operation. The Companys online services may from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns, or errors. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase the Companys costs and individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition or operating results. The Company is subject to laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations in a number of areas. These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Companys activities including, but not limited to, areas of labor, advertising, content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, 15 import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health, and safety. By way of example, laws and regulations related to mobile communications and media devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions on the production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carriers network, or mandating the use of the device on more than one carriers network. These devices are also subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications, delays in product shipment dates, or preclude the Company from selling certain products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. This increases the costs of doing business, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation could individually or in the aggregate make the Companys products and services less attractive to the Companys customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, cause the Company to change or limit its business practices, or affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Companys employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Companys policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition or operating results. The Companys success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of the Companys future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where most of the Companys key personnel are located. Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Companys business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Companys products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Companys supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Companys manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Companys research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses, significant recovery time and substantial expenditures could be required to resume operations and the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 16 Please also refer to the discussion of risks related to the March 11, 2011, Japan earthquake and tsunami and the recent flooding in Thailand in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the subheading Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and Thailand Flooding, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Company may be subject to information technology system failures or network disruptions that could damage the Companys reputation, business operations, and financial conditions. The Company may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Companys disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to the Companys online stores and services, preclude retail store transactions, compromise Company or customer data, and result in delayed or cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, delivery of online services, transactions processing and financial reporting. The Company may be subject to breaches of its information technology systems, which could damage the Companys reputation, business partner and customer relationships, and access to online stores and services. Such breaches could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. The Companys business requires it to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information (PII). This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. Although malicious attacks to gain access to PII affect many companies across various industries, the Company may be at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the amount of PII managed. The Company requires user names and passwords in order to access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to Company data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access the Companys information technology systems. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result in the delay or loss of customer orders. The Company devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. The Company may experience a breach of its systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects the Companys systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, the Companys reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the Companys products and services could decrease. The Company would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. The Companys business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of PII. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the Company and its subsidiaries, and among the Company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the Company has commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws in this 17 area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company to incur substantial costs or require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability. The Companys privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of data are posted on its website. Any failure by the Company, its suppliers or other parties with whom the Company does business to comply with its posted privacy policies or with other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, the Company could be liable to payment card issuers for the cost of associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if the Company fails to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, the Company could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. The Companys profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Companys software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Companys other products. Gross margins on the Companys hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Companys direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Companys gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, new products, component cost increases, strengthening U.S. dollar, or price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first fiscal quarter compared to other fiscal quarters due to increased holiday seasonal demand. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time-to-time during the third month of a quarter than it does during either of the first two months. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Companys products, issues with new product introductions, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Companys logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Companys stock price is subject to volatility. The Companys stock continues to experience substantial price volatility. Additionally, the stock market as a whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies operating performance. The Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. The Companys business is subject to the risks of international operations. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and 18 regulations, a violation by the Companys employees, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. The consequences of such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition or operating results. The Companys financial condition and operating results also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, political instability, and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company is also exposed to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables with customers in certain international markets. There can be no assurance it can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Companys products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the dollars strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Companys cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. Although the Company has not recognized any significant losses to date on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant declines in their market values could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a significant impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Companys exposure to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. Cellular network carriers accounted for a significant portion of the Companys trade receivables as of September 24, 2011. The 19 Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. Two vendors accounted for a significant portion of the Companys non-trade receivables as of September 24, 2011. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary conduct of business, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty and, regardless of the merit of the claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Companys operations, and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into arrangements to settle litigation. Although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Changes in the Companys tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Companys future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Companys profitability. The Company is also subject to the continual examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The Companys headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 24, 2011, the Company owned or leased approximately 13.2 million square feet of building space, primarily in the U.S., and to a lesser extent, in Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia-Pacific regions. Of that amount approximately 7.0 million square feet was leased building space, which includes approximately 3.0 million square feet related to retail store space. Of the Companys owned building space, approximately 2.6 million square feet that is located in Cupertino, California will be demolished to build a second corporate campus. Additionally, the Company owns a total of 584 acres of land in various locations. As of September 24, 2011, the Company owned a manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland that also housed a customer support call center and facilities in Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and a customer support call center. In addition, the Company owned facilities for research and 20 development and corporate functions in Cupertino, California, including land for the future development of the Companys second corporate campus. The Company also owned data centers in Newark, California and in North Carolina. Outside the U.S., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. The Company has invested in internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues to make investments in capital equipment as needed to meet anticipated demand for its products. Item 3. Legal Proceedings As of September 24, 2011, the end of the annual period covered by this report, the Company was subject to the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below, as well as certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. See the risk factors The Companys future results could be materially adversely affected if it is found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. and Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2011 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. In re Apple & ATTM Antitrust Litigation (brought on behalf of named plaintiffs Kliegerman, Holman, Rivello, Smith, Lee, Macasaddu, Morikawa, Scotti and Sesso) This is a purported class action filed against the Company and AT&T Mobility in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that the Company and AT&T Mobility violated the federal antitrust laws by monopolizing and/or attempting to monopolize the aftermarket for voice and data services for the iPhone and that the Company monopolized and/or attempted to monopolize the aftermarket for software applications for iPhones. Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief and attorneys fees. On July 8, 2010 the Court granted in part plaintiffs motion for class certification. Following a favorable Supreme Court ruling for AT&T Mobility in its case against Conception, defendants have filed Motions to Compel Arbitration and to Decertify the Class. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak v. Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker v. Apple Computer, Inc.); Somers v. Apple Inc. These related cases have been filed on January 3, 2005, July 21, 2006 and December 31, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of a purported class of direct and indirect purchasers of iPods and iTunes Store content, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying of music and video purchased on the iTunes Store with the purchase of iPods and unlawful acquisition or maintenance of monopoly market power and unlawful acquisition or maintenance of monopoly market power under 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, the Cartwright Act, California Business & Professions Code 17200 (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement of revenues and/or profits and attorneys fees. Plaintiffs are also seeking DRM free versions of any songs downloaded from iTunes or an order requiring the Company to license its DRM to all competing music players. The cases are currently pending. 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock is traded on the over-the-counter market and is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL. Price Range of Common Stock The price range per share of common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter of the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal 2011 price range per common share $ 422.86 - $327.25 $ 355.13 - $310.50 $ 364.90 - $321.31 $ 325.72 - $275.00 Fiscal 2010 price range per common share $ 293.53 - $235.56 $ 279.01 - $199.25 $ 231.95 - $190.25 $ 209.35 - $180.70 Holders As of October 14, 2011, there were 28,543 shareholders of record. Dividends The Company did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2011 or 2010. The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future it will retain any earnings for use in the operation of its business. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. 22 Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Composite Index, the S&P Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Composite Index, the S&P Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index on September 30, 2006. Data points on the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. September 30, 2006 September 30, 2007 September 30, 2008 September 30, 2009 September 30, 2010 September 30, 2011 Apple Inc. $ 100 $ 199 $ 148 $ 241 $ 369 $ 495 S&P 500 $ 100 $ 116 $ 91 $ 85 $ 93 $ 94 S&P Computer Hardware $ 100 $ 148 $ 124 $ 147 $ 174 $ 197 Dow Jones US Technology $ 100 $ 123 $ 94 $ 104 $ 117 $ 120 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September 24, 2011, is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts). 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales $ 108,249 $ 65,225 $ 42,905 $ 37,491 $ 24,578 Net income $ 25,922 $ 14,013 $ 8,235 $ 6,119 $ 3,495 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 28.05 $ 15.41 $ 9.22 $ 6.94 $ 4.04 Diluted $ 27.68 $ 15.15 $ 9.08 $ 6.78 $ 3.93 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 924,258 909,461 893,016 881,592 864,595 Diluted 936,645 924,712 907,005 902,139 889,292 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 81,570 $ 51,011 $ 33,992 $ 24,490 $ 15,386 Total assets $ 116,371 $ 75,183 $ 47,501 $ 36,171 $ 24,878 Total long-term obligations (a) $ 10,100 $ 5,531 $ 3,502 $ 1,745 $ 687 Total liabilities $ 39,756 $ 27,392 $ 15,861 $ 13,874 $ 10,347 Total shareholders equity $ 76,615 $ 47,791 $ 31,640 $ 22,297 $ 14,531 (a) The Company did not have any long-term debt during the five years ended September 24, 2011. Long-term obligations exclude non-current deferred revenue. 24 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as anticipates, expects, believes, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the subsection entitled Risk Factors above, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod, Apple TV, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac OS X operating systems, iCloud, and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative design. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. As part of the iTunes Store, the Companys App Store and iBookstore allow customers to discover and download applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through iOS devices, namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. In January 2011, the Company opened the Mac App Store to allow customers to easily discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. The Companys strategy also includes expanding its distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including mobile communications and media devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; personal computers with its Mac computers; and distribution of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the markets where it competes, these markets are highly competitive and subject to aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that continual investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products and technologies. The Companys research and development spending is focused on investing in new hardware and software products, and in further developing its existing products, including iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod hardware; iOS and Mac OS X operating systems; and a variety of application software and online services. 25 The Company uses a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels, such as its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of integration and support services, and product expertise. Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and Thailand Flooding On March 11, 2011, the northeast coast of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami, with continuing aftershocks. These geological events have caused significant damage in the region, including severe damage to nuclear power plants, and have impacted Japans power and other infrastructure as well as its economy. Certain of the Companys suppliers are located in Japan, and certain of its other suppliers integrate components or use materials manufactured in Japan in the production of its products. To the extent that component production has been affected, the Company has generally obtained alternative sources of supply or implemented other measures. The Company does not currently believe these events will have a material impact on its operations in the first quarter of 2012 unless conditions worsen, including, but not limited to, power outages and expansion of evacuation zones around the nuclear power plants. Beyond the first quarter of 2012, uncertainty exists with respect to the availability of electrical power, the damage to nuclear power plants and the impact to other infrastructure. Thus, there is a risk that the Company could in the future experience delays or other constraints in obtaining key components and products and/or price increases related to such components and products that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. In addition, in recent months several regions of Thailand have experienced severe flooding, causing damage to infrastructure, housing and factories. A number of the Companys suppliers are located in Thailand. As with Japan, to the extent that component production has been affected, the Company will work to obtain alternative sources of supply or implement other measures. Based on the Companys current assessment of the situation, it does not believe this event will have a material impact on its operations in the first quarter of 2012; however, because the situation in Thailand is still evolving uncertainty remains regarding the ultimate impact of this event on the Company. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. 26 Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of marketable securities, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products, software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware, and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential to the hardware products functionality, undelivered software elements that relate to the hardware products essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For sales of iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, for sales of iPod touch beginning in June 2010, and for sales of Mac beginning in June 2011, the Company has indicated it may from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. In June 2011, the Company announced it would begin providing various non-software services to owners of qualifying versions of iOS devices and Mac. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these unspecified software upgrade rights or the non-software services, revenue is allocated to these rights and services based on the Companys ESPs. Amounts allocated to the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives of each of these devices, which range from 24 to 48 months. The Companys process for determining ESPs involves managements judgment. The Companys process considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. If the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change, including the estimated or actual costs incurred to provide non-software services or the estimated lives of the related devices, or should future facts and circumstances lead the Company to consider additional factors, the Companys ESP for software upgrades and non-software services related to future sales of these devices could change. If the estimated life of one or more of the devices should change, the future rate of amortization of the revenue allocated to the software upgrade rights would also change. 27 The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities impact the Companys net income only when such securities are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell, the security before recovery of the its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired, could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The industries in which the Company competes are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods up to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to 28 record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 29 Net Sales Fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 each spanned 52 weeks. An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal year 2012 will end on September 29, 2012 and will span 53 weeks, with a 14th week added to the first quarter of 2012. The following table summarizes net sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during the three years ended September 24, 2011 (in millions, except unit sales in thousands and per unit amounts): 2011 Change 2010 Change 2009 Net Sales by Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ 38,315 56% $ 24,498 29% $ 18,981 Europe net sales 27,778 49% 18,692 58% 11,810 Japan net sales 5,437 37% 3,981 75% 2,279 Asia-Pacific net sales 22,592 174% 8,256 160% 3,179 Retail net sales 14,127 44% 9,798 47% 6,656 Total net sales $ 108,249 66% $ 65,225 52% $ 42,905 Net Sales by Product: Desktops (a) $ 6,439 4% $ 6,201 43% $ 4,324 Portables (b) 15,344 36% 11,278 18% 9,535 Total Mac net sales 21,783 25% 17,479 26% 13,859 iPod 7,453 (10)% 8,274 2% 8,091 Other music related products and services (c) 6,314 28% 4,948 23% 4,036 iPhone and related products and services (d) 47,057 87% 25,179 93% 13,033 iPad and related products and services (e) 20,358 311% 4,958 NM 0 Peripherals and other hardware (f) 2,330 28% 1,814 23% 1,475 Software, service and other sales (g) 2,954 15% 2,573 7% 2,411 Total net sales $ 108,249 66% $ 65,225 52% $ 42,905 Unit Sales by Product: Desktops (a) 4,669 1% 4,627 45% 3,182 Portables (b) 12,066 34% 9,035 25% 7,214 Total Mac unit sales 16,735 22% 13,662 31% 10,396 iPod unit sales 42,620 (15)% 50,312 (7)% 54,132 iPhone units sold 72,293 81% 39,989 93% 20,731 iPad units sold 32,394 334% 7,458 NM 0 (a) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. (b) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. (c) Includes sales from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore in addition to sales of iPod services and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. (d) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. (e) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. (f) Includes sales of displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. (g) Includes sales from the Mac App Store in addition to sales of other Apple-branded and third-party Mac software and Mac and Internet services. NM = Not Meaningful 30 Fiscal Year 2011 versus 2010 Net sales during 2011 increased $43.0 billion or 66% compared to 2010. Several factors contributed positively to this increase, including the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $47.1 billion in 2011, representing an increase of $21.9 billion or 87% compared to 2010. iPhone handset unit sales totaled 72.3 million during 2011, representing an increase of 32.3 million units or 81% compared to 2010. iPhone year-over-year net sales growth reflected strong demand for iPhone 4 in all of the Companys operating segments. The expanded U.S. distribution of iPhone to the Verizon Wireless network beginning in February 2011, continued expansion into new countries, and increased distribution with other new carriers and resellers also contributed to the year-over-year growth of iPhone. As of September 24, 2011, the Company distributed iPhone in 105 countries through 228 carriers. Additionally, the Company distributes iPhone through its direct channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services accounted for 43% of the Companys total net sales for 2011. Net sales of iPad and related products and services, which the Company introduced in the third quarter of 2010, were $20.4 billion in 2011, representing an increase of $15.4 billion or 311% compared to 2010. Unit sales of iPad were 32.4 million during 2011, an increase of 334% from 2010. The year-over-year unit growth and net sales growth were driven by strong iPad demand in all of the Companys operating segments. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. The Company distributed iPad in 90 countries as of September 24, 2011 compared to 26 countries as of September 25, 2010. Net sales of iPad and related products and services accounted for 19% of the Companys total net sales for 2011. Mac net sales were $21.8 billion in 2011, representing an increase of $4.3 billion or 25% compared to 2010. Mac unit sales increased by 3.1 million or 22% in 2011 compared to 2010. The year-over-year growth in Mac net sales and unit sales was due primarily to higher demand in all of the Companys operating segments for MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, which were updated in July 2011 and February 2011, respectively. The year-over-year revenue growth for portables and desktops was 36% and 4%, respectively. Net sales of the Companys Macs accounted for 20% of the Companys total net sales for 2011. Net sales of other music related products and services were $6.3 billion in 2011, representing an increase of $1.4 billion or 28% compared to 2010. The increase was due primarily to increased net sales from the iTunes Store, which was largely driven by App Store expansion into new countries that contributed to strong growth in all of the Companys geographic segments. During 2011, the combined net sales for the iTunes Store, App Store and iBookstore was $5.4 billion, representing an increase of 33% compared to 2010. The Company believes this continued growth is the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading third-party digital content, continued growth in its customer base of iPhone, iPad and iPod, expansion of third-party audio and video content available via the iTunes Store, and continued interest in and growth of the App Store. Net sales of other music related products and services accounted for 6% of the Companys total net sales for 2011. Partially offsetting the positive factors contributing to the overall increase in net sales was a decrease in iPod net sales of $821 million or 10% during 2011 compared to 2010. Similarly, iPod unit sales decreased by 15% in 2011 compared to 2010. However, net sales per iPod unit sold increased during 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to a shift in iPod product mix toward iPod touch. Net sales of iPod accounted for 7% of the Companys total net sales for 2011. 31 Fiscal Year 2010 versus 2009 Net sales during 2010 increased $22.3 billion or 52% compared to 2009. Several factors contributed positively to this increase, including the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $25.2 billion in 2010 representing an increase of $12.1 billion or 93% compared to 2009. iPhone unit sales totaled 40 million in 2010, which represents an increase of 19.3 million or 93% compared to 2009. iPhone year-over-year growth was attributable primarily to continued growth from existing carriers, expanded distribution with new international carriers and resellers, and strong demand for iPhone 4, which was released in the U.S. in June 2010 and in many other countries over the remainder of 2010. As of September 25, 2010, the Company distributed iPhone in 89 countries through 166 carriers. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services accounted for 39% of the Companys total net sales for 2010 compared to 30% in 2009. Net sales of iPad and related products and services were $5.0 billion and unit sales of iPad were 7.5 million during 2010. iPad was released in the U.S. in April 2010 and in various other countries over the remainder of 2010. As of September 25, 2010, the Company distributed iPad in 26 countries. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales of iPad and related products and services accounted for 8% of the Companys total net sales for 2010, reflecting the strong demand for iPad during the five months following its release. Mac net sales increased by $3.6 billion or 26% in 2010 compared to 2009, and Mac unit sales increased by 3.3 million or 31% in 2010 compared to 2009. Net sales per Mac unit sold decreased by 4% in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to lower average selling prices of Mac portable systems. During 2010, net sales and unit sales of the Companys Mac portable systems increased by 18% and 25%, respectively, primarily attributable to strong demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated in April 2010. Net sales and unit sales of the Companys Mac desktop systems increased by 43% and 45%, respectively, as a result of higher sales of iMac, which was updated in July 2010. Net sales of the Companys Macs accounted for 27% of the Companys total net sales in 2010 compared to 32% in 2009. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $912 million or 23% during 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due primarily to growth of the iTunes Store which generated total net sales of $4.1 billion for 2010. The results of the iTunes Store reflect growth of the iTunes App Store, continued growth in the installed base of iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, and the expansion of third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store. The Company continues to expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Net sales of other music related products and services accounted for 8% of the Companys total net sales for 2010 compared to 9% in 2009. Net sales of iPods increased $183 million or 2% during 2010, while iPod unit sales declined by 7% during 2010 compared to 2009. Net sales per iPod unit sold increased by 10% to $164 in 2010 compared to 2009, due to a shift in product mix toward iPod touch. iPod touch experienced strong growth in each of the Companys reportable operating segments. Net sales of iPods accounted for 13% of the Companys total net sales for 2010 compared to 19% in 2009. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable operating segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The results of the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments do not include the results of the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian 32 countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores in 11 countries. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 8, Segment Information and Geographic Data in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K. Americas During 2011, net sales in the Americas segment increased $13.8 billion or 56% compared to 2010. The primary contributors to the growth in net sales was a significant year-over-year increase in iPhone revenue from carrier expansion and strong demand for iPhone 4 and increased sales of iPad and Macs, partially offset by a decrease in iPod net sales. Higher sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store and App Store also drove an increase in sales during 2011. The Americas segment represented approximately 35% and 37% of the Companys total net sales for 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2010, net sales in the Americas segment increased $5.5 billion or 29% compared to 2009. This increase in net sales was driven by increased iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, continued demand for Mac desktop and portable systems, and higher sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. The Americas segment represented 37% and 44% of the Companys total net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Europe For 2011, net sales in the Europe segment increased $9.1 billion or 49%, compared to 2010. The increase in net sales during 2011 was attributable primarily to the continued year-over-year increase in iPhone revenue from carrier expansion and strong demand for iPhone 4, and increased sales of iPad and Macs, partially offset by a decrease in iPod net sales. The Europe segment represented 26% and 29% of total net sales for 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2010, net sales in Europe increased $6.9 billion or 58% compared to 2009. The growth in net sales was due mainly to a significant increase in iPhone revenue attributable to continued growth from existing carriers and country and carrier expansion, increased sales of Mac desktop and portable systems and strong demand for iPad, partially offset by a stronger U.S. dollar. The Europe segment represented 29% and 28% of the Companys total net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Japan Japans net sales increased $1.5 billion or 37% during 2011 compared to 2010. The key contributors to Japans net sales growth were increased iPhone revenue, strong sales of iPad, increased sales of Macs, and strength in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar. The Japan segment represented 5% and 6% of total net sales for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The recent earthquakes and tsunami that struck the northeast coast of Japan have created uncertainty regarding general economic and market conditions in Japan. Any significant impact of these events on consumer demand could negatively impact the Companys net sales in Japan in the future. The Company does not currently believe that the impact of these events will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its results of operations. During 2010, Japans net sales increased $1.7 billion or 75% compared to 2009. The primary contributors to this growth were significant year-over-year increases in iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, and to a lesser extent strength in the Japanese Yen. The Japan segment represented 6% and 5% of the Companys total net sales for 2010 and 2009, respectively. 33 Asia-Pacific Net sales in the Asia Pacific segment increased $14.3 billion or 174% during 2011 compared to 2010. The Company experienced particularly strong year-over-year net sales growth in its Asia Pacific segment during 2011, especially in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Korea and Australia also experienced strong year-over-year revenue growth. Higher net sales in the Asia Pacific segment were due mainly to the increase in iPhone revenue primarily attributable to the strong demand for iPhone 4 and carrier expansion, strong sales of iPad, and increased sales of Macs. The Asia Pacific segment represented 21% and 13% of total net sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net sales in Asia-Pacific increased $5.1 billion or 160% during 2010 compared to 2009. The significant growth in Asia-Pacific net sales was due mainly to increased iPhone revenue, which was primarily attributable to country and carrier expansion and continued growth from existing carriers. Asia-Pacific net sales were also favorably affected by strong demand for Mac portable and desktop systems and for iPad. Particularly strong year-over-year growth was experienced in China, Korea and Australia. The Asia-Pacific segment represented 13% and 7% of the Companys total net sales for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Retail Retail segment net sales increased $4.3 billion or 44% during 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net sales was driven primarily by strong demand for iPad, higher sales of Macs, and an increase in iPhone revenue. The Company opened 40 new retail stores during 2011, 28 of which were outside the U.S., ending the year with 357 stores open compared to 317 stores at the end of 2010. As of September 24, 2011, the Company had a total of 245 U.S. retail stores and 112 international retail stores. During 2011, the Company had an average of 326 stores compared to an average of 288 stores during 2010. The average revenue per store increased 27% to $43.3 million in 2011 compared to $34.1 million in 2010. The Retail segment represented 13% and 15% of total net sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Retail net sales increased $3.1 billion or 47% during 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in net sales was driven primarily by strong demand for iPad, increased sales of Mac desktop and portable systems and a significant year-over-year increase in iPhone revenue. The Company opened 44 new retail stores during 2010, 28 of which were outside the U.S., ending the year with 317 stores open compared to 273 stores at the end of 2009. With an average of 288 stores and 254 stores opened during 2010 and 2009, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $34.1 million in 2010, compared to $26.2 million in 2009. The Retail segment represented 15% and 16% of the Companys total net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Retail segment reported operating income of $3.3 billion during 2011 compared to $2.4 billion during 2010. The year-over-year increase in Retail operating income was primarily attributable to higher overall net sales that resulted in significantly higher average revenue per store during 2011 compared to 2010. The Retail segment reported operating income of $1.7 billion during 2009. The increase in Retail operating income during 2010 compared to 2009 was attributable to higher overall net sales. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since inception totaled $2.8 billion through the end of 2011. As of September 24, 2011, the Retail segment had approximately 36,000 full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities of $2.4 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores and such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. 34 Gross Margin Gross margin for the three years ended September 24, 2011, are as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): 2011 2010 2009 Net sales $ 108,249 $ 65,225 $ 42,905 Cost of sales 64,431 39,541 25,683 Gross margin $ 43,818 $ 25,684 $ 17,222 Gross margin percentage 40.5% 39.4% 40.1% The gross margin percentage in 2011 was 40.5%, compared to 39.4% in 2010. This year-over-year increase in gross margin was largely driven by lower commodity and other product costs. The gross margin percentage in 2010 was 39.4% compared to 40.1% in 2009. This year-over-year decline in gross margin was primarily attributable to new products that had higher cost structures, including iPad, partially offset by a more favorable sales mix of iPhone, which had a higher gross margin than the Company average. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2011, largely due to a higher mix of new and innovative products with flat or reduced pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors including, but not limited to certain of those set forth below in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subheading Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities , which is incorporated herein by reference. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and potential increases in the cost of components, as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short-term by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three years ended September 24, 2011, are as follows (in millions, except for percentages): 2011 2010 2009 Research and development $ 2,429 $ 1,782 $ 1,333 Percentage of net sales 2% 3% 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 7,599 $ 5,517 $ 4,149 Percentage of net sales 7% 8% 10% Research and Development Expense (R&D) R&D expense increased $647 million or 36% to $2.4 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due primarily to an increase in headcount and related expenses to support expanded R&D activities. Although total 35 R&D expense increased 36% during 2011 compared to 2010, it declined slightly as a percentage of net sales, due to the 66% year-over-year growth in the Companys net sales during 2011. R&D expense increased 34% or $449 million to $1.8 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due primarily to an increase in headcount and related expenses in the current year to support expanded R&D activities. Also contributing to this increase in R&D expense in 2010 was the capitalization in 2009 of software development costs of $71 million related to Mac OS X Snow Leopard. Although total R&D expense increased 34% during 2010, it declined as a percentage of net sales given the 52% year-over-year increase in net sales in 2010. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to make further investments in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A) SG&A expense increased $2.1 billion or 38% to $7.6 billion during 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment, increased headcount and related costs, higher spending on professional services and marketing and advertising programs, and increased variable costs associated with the overall growth of the Companys net sales. SG&A expense increased $1.4 billion or 33% to $5.5 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment, higher spending on marketing and advertising programs, increased share-based compensation expenses and variable costs associated with the overall growth of the Companys net sales. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three years ended September 24, 2011, are as follows (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 Interest and dividend income $ 519 $ 311 $ 407 Other expense, net (104 ) (156 ) (81 ) Total other income and expense $ 415 $ 155 $ 326 Total other income and expense increased $260 million or 168% to $415 million during 2011 compared to $155 million and $326 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The year-over-year increase in other income and expense during 2011 was due primarily to higher interest income and net realized gains on sales of marketable securities. The overall decrease in other income and expense in 2010 compared to 2009 was attributable to the significant declines in interest rates on a year-over-year basis, partially offset by the Companys higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Additionally the Company incurred higher premium expenses on its foreign exchange option contracts, which further reduced the total other income and expense. The weighted average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 0.77%, 0.75% and 1.43% during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company had no debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rates were approximately 24.2%, 24.4% and 31.8% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys effective rates for these periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 36 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. As of September 24, 2011, the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $3.2 billion, and deferred tax liabilities of $9.2 billion. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for and amount of a valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2004 through 2006 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS is currently examining the years 2007 through 2009. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2004 have been resolved. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of and for the three years ended September 24, 2011 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 81,570 $ 51,011 $ 33,992 Accounts receivable, net $ 5,369 $ 5,510 $ 3,361 Inventories $ 776 $ 1,051 $ 455 Working capital $ 17,018 $ 20,956 $ 20,049 Annual operating cash flow $ 37,529 $ 18,595 $ 10,159 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased $30.6 billion or 60% during 2011. The principal components of this net increase was the cash generated by operating activities of $37.5 billion, which was partially offset by payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment of $4.3 billion, payments for acquisition of intangible assets of $3.2 billion and payments made in connection with business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $244 million. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Companys investment policy requires investments to generally be investment grade with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. As of September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, $54.3 billion and $30.8 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $4.6 billion during 2011, consisting of approximately $614 million for retail store facilities and $4.0 billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing 37 process equipment, real estate for the future development of the Companys second corporate campus, and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Companys actual cash payments for capital expenditures during 2011 were $4.3 billion, of which $612 million relates to retail store facilities. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $8.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2012, including approximately $900 million for retail store facilities and approximately $7.1 billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. During 2012, the Company expects to open about 40 new retail stores, approximately three-quarters of which will be located outside of the U.S. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to the Company. The following table presents certain payments due by the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments as of September 24, 2011 and excludes amounts already recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (in millions): Total Payments Due in Less Than 1 Year Payments Due in 1-3 Years Payments Due in 4-5 Years Payments Due in More Than 5 Years Operating leases $ 3,032 $ 338 $ 727 $ 665 $ 1,302 Purchase obligations 13,949 13,949 0 0 0 Other obligations 2,415 2,297 114 4 0 Total $ 19,396 $ 16,584 $ 841 $ 669 $ 1,302 Lease Commitments The Companys major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding 10 years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. As of September 24, 2011, the Companys total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $3.0 billion, of which $2.4 billion related to leases for retail space. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. As of September 24, 2011, the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of $13.9 billion. 38 Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $2.4 billion as of September 24, 2011, and were comprised mainly of commitments under long-term supply agreements to make additional inventory component prepayments and to acquire capital equipment, commitments to acquire product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related to advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Companys other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily of deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. As of September 24, 2011, the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $8.2 billion. Additionally, as of September 24, 2011, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.4 billion and an additional $261 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss with respect to indemnification of end-users of its operating system or application software for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record a liability for infringement costs related to indemnification as of either September 24, 2011 or September 25, 2010. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material.