Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. For example, statements in this Form 10-K regarding the potential future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Companys business and results of operations are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar, and references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells a variety of related services. The Companys fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977. Products iPhone iPhone is the Companys line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. During 2020, the Company released a new iPhone SE. In October 2020, the Company announced four new iPhone models with 5G technology: iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro were available starting in October 2020, and iPhone 12 Pro Max and iPhone 12 mini are both expected to be available in November 2020. Mac Mac is the Companys line of personal computers based on its macOS operating system. During 2020, the Company released a new 16-inch MacBook Pro , a fully redesigned Mac Pro , and updated versions of its MacBook Air , 13-inch MacBook Pro and 27-inch iMac . iPad iPad is the Companys line of multi-purpose tablets based on its iPadOS operating system. During 2020, the Company released an updated iPad Pro . In September 2020, the Company released an eighth-generation iPad and introduced an all-new iPad Air , which was available starting in October 2020. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories includes AirPods , Apple TV , Apple Watch , Beats products, HomePod , iPod touch and other Apple-branded and third-party accessories. AirPods are the Companys wireless headphones that interact with Siri . During 2020, the Company released AirPods Pro . Apple Watch is the Companys line of smart watches based on its watchOS operating system. In September 2020, the Company released Apple Watch Series 6 and a new Apple Watch SE. In October 2020, the Company announced HomePod mini, which is expected to be available in November 2020. Services Advertising The Companys advertising services include various third-party licensing arrangements and the Companys own advertising platforms. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 1 AppleCare The Company offers a portfolio of fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare brand. The offerings provide priority access to Apple technical support, access to the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and in many cases additional coverage for instances of accidental damage and/or theft and loss, depending on the country and type of product. Cloud Services The Companys cloud services store and keep customers content up-to-date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers. Digital Content The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store , that allow customers to discover and download applications and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts. The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade SM , a game subscription service; Apple Music , which offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations; Apple News+ SM , a subscription news and magazine service; and Apple TV+ SM , which offers exclusive original content. In September 2020, the Company announced Apple Fitness+ SM , a personalized fitness service built for Apple Watch, which is expected to be available before the end of calendar 2020. Payment Services The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay , a cashless payment service. Markets and Distribution The Companys customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During 2020, the Companys net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 34% and 66%, respectively, of total net sales. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized by aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. Many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by emulating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 2 The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices and services. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. In addition, some of the Companys competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and a larger installed base of active devices. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors may have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Companys services compete with business models that provide content to users for free and use illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company expects competition in these markets to intensify significantly as competitors imitate the Companys product features and applications within their products, or collaborate to offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. Supply of Components Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants in the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Substantially all of the Companys hardware products are manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland. Research and Development Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through research and development (R&D), licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Companys products. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. In addition to Company-owned intellectual property, many of the Companys products and services are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of the Companys products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 3 Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. The timing of product introductions can also impact the Companys net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new inventory following a product launch, and channel inventory of an older product often declines as the launch of a newer product approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction. Employees As of September 26, 2020, the Company had approximately 147,000 full-time equivalent employees. Available Information The Companys Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge at investor.apple.com/investor-relations/sec-filings/default.aspx when such reports are available on the SECs website. The Company periodically provides other information for investors on its corporate website, www.apple.com, and its investor relations website, investor.apple.com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information on corporate governance and details related to the Companys annual meeting of shareholders. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Companys references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the Companys actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price have been adversely affected and could in the future be materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has spread rapidly throughout the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by many countries in response have adversely affected and could in the future materially adversely impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Following the initial outbreak of the virus, the Company experienced disruptions to its manufacturing, supply chain and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, resulting in temporary iPhone supply shortages that affected sales worldwide. During the course of the pandemic, the Companys retail stores, as well as channel partner points of sale, have been temporarily closed at various times. In many cases, where stores and points of sale have reopened they are subject to operating restrictions to protect public health and the health and safety of employees and customers. The Company has at times required substantially all of its employees to work remotely. The Company is continuing to monitor the situation and take appropriate actions in accordance with the recommendations and requirements of relevant authorities. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Companys operational and financial performance is currently uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Companys control, including, without limitation, the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic, the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, the imposition of and compliance with protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and demand for consumer products. Additional future impacts on the Company may include, but are not limited to, material adverse effects on: demand for the Companys products and services; the Companys supply chain and sales and distribution channels; the Companys ability to execute its strategic plans; and the Companys profitability and cost structure. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and growth. The Company has international operations with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Companys total net sales. In addition, a majority of the Companys supply chain, and its manufacturing and assembly activities, are located outside the U.S. As a result, the Companys operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession, new or increased tariffs and other barriers to trade, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations could materially adversely affect demand for the Companys products and services. In addition, consumer confidence and spending could be adversely affected in response to financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, declines in income or asset values, changes to fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs and other economic factors. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 5 In addition to an adverse impact on demand for the Companys products, uncertainty about, or a decline in, global or regional economic conditions could have a significant impact on the Companys suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. Potential effects include financial instability; inability to obtain credit to finance operations and purchases of the Companys products; and insolvency. A downturn in the economic environment could also lead to increased credit and collectibility risk on the Companys trade receivables; the failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations on the Companys ability to issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines in the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and growth. Global markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The Companys products and services are offered in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in R&D. There can be no assurance that these investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not be able to develop and market new products and services successfully. The Company currently holds a significant number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and has registered, and applied to register, numerous patents, trademarks and copyrights. In contrast, many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by emulating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection may not be consistently available in every country in which the Company operates. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if competitors infringe on the Companys intellectual property, the Companys ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be adversely affected. The Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. In addition, some of the Companys competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and a larger installed base of active devices. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors may have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products at little or no profit or even at a loss. Some of the markets in which the Company competes have from time to time experienced little to no growth or contracted overall. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition as competitors imitate the Companys product features and applications within their products or collaborate to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors imitate the Companys approach to providing components seamlessly within their offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. The Companys services also face substantial competition, including from companies that have significant resources and experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models that provide content to users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Companys financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Companys ability to continually improve its products and services to maintain their functional and design advantages. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 6 To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions of products and services. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully manage the transition to these new and upgraded products and services. The success of new product and service introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful development, market acceptance, the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with new product production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality or other defects or deficiencies. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product and service introductions and transitions. The Company depends on the performance of carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. Some carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone offer financing, installment payment plans or subsidies for users purchases of the device. There is no assurance that such offers will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Companys agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs can require a substantial investment while not assuring return or incremental sales. The financial condition of these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Companys products, or uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the Companys products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products. The Company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand, or for which cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company also accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the assets may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently recoverable, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur write-downs, fees, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods up to 150 days. Because the Companys markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 7 Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities on commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Component suppliers may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead to business failure for the supplier or consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on commercially reasonable terms. The effects of global or regional economic conditions on the Companys suppliers, described in Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and growth, above, also could affect the Companys ability to obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Companys new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, can be affected for any number of reasons, including if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. If the Companys supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Companys business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control may have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Companys flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible to the consumer for warranty and out-of-warranty service in the event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect liability. While the Company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, material violations of the supplier code of conduct could occur. The Company relies on single-source outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe to supply and manufacture many components, and on outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia, for final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. Any failure of these partners to perform can have a negative impact on the Companys cost or supply of components or finished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations or transit to final destinations can be disrupted for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions, economic, business, labor, environmental, public health or political issues, or international trade disputes. The Company has invested in manufacturing process equipment, much of which is held at certain of its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply of components and finished goods, if these outsourcing partners or suppliers experience severe financial problems or other disruptions in their business, such continued supply can be reduced or terminated, and the recoverability of manufacturing process equipment or prepayments can be negatively impacted. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 8 The Companys products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Companys business and result in harm to the Companys reputation. The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products. Defects can also exist in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Companys products unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase as the Companys products are introduced into specialized applications, including healthcare. In addition, the Companys service offerings may have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. As a result, the Companys services may not perform as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in the hardware, software and services it offers. Failure to do so could result in widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Companys products and services. In addition, the Company can be exposed to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and/or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users of the Companys products and services, and result in harm to the Companys reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales. The Company relies on access to third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content to customers. This includes the right to sell currently available content. The licensing or other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Companys access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach. Failure to obtain the right to make third-party digital content available, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions. If requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company to license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Companys content providers. The Companys future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Companys products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Companys products, customers may choose not to buy the Companys products. The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in part on the developers perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Companys products compared to competitors platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets and Windows for personal computers. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of product sales, and the costs of developing such applications and services. The Companys minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets could make developers less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Companys products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for competitors products with larger market share. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Companys devices may suffer. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 9 The Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Companys products and operating systems are subject to rapid technological change, and if third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not take advantage of these changes to deliver improved customer experiences or might not operate correctly and may result in dissatisfied customers. The Company sells and delivers third-party applications for its products through the App Store. For the vast majority of applications, developers keep all of the revenue they generate on the App Store. The Company only retains a commission from sales of applications through its platforms and in situations where a developer offers purchases for digital features, services, or goods within an application. If developers reduce their use of the Companys platforms, including in-app purchases, then the volume of sales, and the commission that the Company earns on those sales, would decrease. If the rate of the commission that the Company retains on such sales is reduced, or if it is otherwise narrowed in scope or eliminated, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company relies on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of the Companys products and services are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties, which requires licenses from those third parties. In addition, because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company currently competes or in the future may compete, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, the Companys products and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Based on experience and industry practice, the Company believes licenses to such third-party intellectual property can generally be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. There is, however, no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products or services, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Companys financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings or government investigations. The Company is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matters may arise in the future. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which can subject the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. The number of claims, legal proceedings and government investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude of such claims, proceedings and government investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue to increase. The Company has faced and continues to face a significant number of patent claims relating to its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise in the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in several U.S. jurisdictions, as well as internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, defending against litigation or responding to government investigations can be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Companys operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such challenges. No assurance can be given that such agreements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These agreements may also significantly increase the Companys cost of sales and operating expenses. Except as described in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies under the heading Contingencies, in the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss greater than a recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims, including matters related to infringement of intellectual property rights. The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above managements expectations, the Companys financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company, and could require the Company to change its business practices or limit the Companys ability to offer certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 10 The Company is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Companys business. The Companys global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations on subjects including, but not limited to: antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; Internet, telecommunications, and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anti-corruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; antimoney laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive, increasing the cost of conducting the Companys global operations. Changes to laws and regulations can adversely affect the Companys business by increasing the Companys costs, limiting the Companys ability to offer a product or service to customers, requiring changes to the Companys supply chain and business practices or otherwise making the Companys products and services less attractive to customers. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Companys employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Companys policies and procedures. If the Company is found to have violated laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. The technology industry, including, in some instances, the Company, is subject to intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company to government investigations, legal actions and penalties. For example, the Company is subject to antitrust investigations in various jurisdictions around the world, which can result in legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. In addition, if enacted, legislative and other proposals to further regulate technology companies could result in changes to the Companys business, including requiring the Company to modify its product and service offerings, limiting the Companys ability to invest in strategic acquisitions, or affecting the Companys business relationships with other technology companies, and could have a materially adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Further, the Companys business partners are or may become subject to litigation that, if resolved against them, could affect the Companys relationships with these business partners and have a materially adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. There can be no assurance that the Companys business will not be materially adversely affected, individually or in the aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in the future. The Companys retail stores have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The Companys retail stores have required substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Companys more typical retail stores. Due to the high cost structure associated with the Companys retail stores, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of an individual store or multiple stores, including as a result of protective public safety measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. The Companys retail operations are subject to many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely impact the Companys financial condition and operating results, including macro-economic factors that could have an adverse effect on general retail activity. Other factors include, but are not limited to, the Companys ability to: manage costs associated with retail store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage costs associated with fluctuations in the value of retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Companys ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated and adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating in new businesses, regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. The failure of any significant investment could adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 11 The Companys business and reputation may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. The Company is exposed to information technology system failures or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Companys business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions can adversely impact the Companys business by, among other things, preventing access to the Companys online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Companys products. These events could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. There may be losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, that could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Companys business requires it to use and store confidential information including, among other things, personally identifiable information (PII) with respect to the Companys customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources to network and data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measures intended to protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. The Companys business also requires it to share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures are not always effective and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Company may experience a security breach impacting the Companys information technology systems that compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability of confidential information. Such an incident could, among other things, impair the Companys ability to attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Companys stock price, materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, which could result in penalties, fines or judgments against the Company. Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including PII, affect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended to secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, including through the use of encryption and authentication technologies. As with all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and may be vulnerable to hacking, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may, in turn, be used to access the Companys information technology systems. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, may result in the delay or loss of customer orders or impede customer access to the Companys products and services. In addition to the risks relating to general confidential information described above, the Company is also subject to specific obligations relating to health data and payment card data. Health data is subject to additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company can be subject to audit by governmental authorities regarding the Companys compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, or if health data is handled in a manner not permitted by law or under the Companys agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company could be subject to litigation or government investigations, may be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and could also incur significant fees or fines. Under payment card rules and obligations, if cardholder information is potentially compromised, the Company could be liable for associated investigatory expenses and could also incur significant fees or fines if the Company fails to follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 12 The Companys business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of PII. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also may restrict transfers of PII among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company to incur substantial costs or require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure of PII through its privacy policy, information provided on its website and press statements. Any failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. In addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. The Companys success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of the Companys future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Companys key personnel are located. The Companys business can be impacted by political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions. Political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions could harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. The Company has a large, global business, and the Company believes that it generally benefits from growth in international trade. International trade disputes can result in tariffs, sanctions, and other measures that restrict international trade and can adversely affect the Companys business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of tariffs being imposed by the U.S. on imports from China mainland, as well as other business restrictions. Tariffs may increase the cost of the Companys products and the components and raw materials that go into making them. These increased costs adversely impact the gross margin that the Company earns on its products. Tariffs can also make the Companys products more expensive for customers, which could make the Companys products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. Countries may also adopt other measures, such as controls on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, that could adversely impact the Companys operations and supply chain and limit the Companys ability to offer its products and services as designed. These measures can require the Company to take various actions, including change suppliers, restructure business relationships, and stop offering third-party applications on its platforms. Changing the Companys operations in accordance with new or changed trade restrictions may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Companys operations and distracting to management. Trade restrictions may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes could also have a negative effect on consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect the Companys business. Many of the Companys operations and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the Companys suppliers and contract manufacturers, are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. In addition, such operations and facilities are subject to the risk of interruption by fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and other events beyond the Companys control. Global climate change could result in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. Such events could make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture and deliver products to its customers, create delays and inefficiencies in the Companys supply and manufacturing chain, and result in slowdowns and outages to the Companys service offerings. Following an interruption to its business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. Because the Company relies on single or limited sources for the supply and manufacture of many critical components, a business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences to the Company. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 13 The Companys operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Companys suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur and could result in disruption to the Companys business and harm to the Companys reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, the Company due to their impact on the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition of protective public safety measures, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of products between regions; and disruptions in the Companys supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions of the supply of current products and delays in production ramps of new products. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of losses, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses that may arise. The Company expects its quarterly net sales and operating results to fluctuate. The Companys profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, the gross margins on the Companys products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Companys gross margins are subject to volatility and downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take in response to such pressures; increased competition; the Companys ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products and services; compressed product life cycles; potential increases in the cost of components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Companys services; the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and the introduction of new products or services, including new products or services with higher cost structures. These and other factors could have a materially adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates a significant portion of its net sales from a single product and a decline in demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Companys products or services, issues with new product or service introductions, information technology system failures or network disruptions, or failure of one of the Companys logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners. The Companys stock price is subject to volatility. The Companys stock price has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies operating performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its stock to exceed the stocks price at a given point in time. The Company believes its stock price should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow, and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Companys Board of Directors, and the Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases or other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. The Companys financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies. The Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to nonU.S. dollardenominated sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Companys products in foreign countries and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currencydenominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Companys products. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise international pricing to offset the U.S. dollars strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the gross margins the Company earns on foreign currencydenominated sales. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 14 Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Companys foreign currencydenominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Companys cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the values of its investment portfolio. The Companys investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Companys cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party bank support or financing arrangements, or credit insurance, and a significant portion of the Companys trade receivables can be concentrated within cellular network carriers or other resellers. The Companys exposure to credit and collectibility risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 26, 2020, the Companys vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of the Companys subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The Companys effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction of new taxes, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Ireland. The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the Companys effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Ireland, or if the ultimate determination of the Companys taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The Companys headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 26, 2020, the Company owned or leased facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes at locations throughout the U.S. and in various places outside the U.S. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used by all reportable segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. The Companys material legal proceedings are described in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies under the heading Contingencies. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above managements expectations, the Companys financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2020 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Common Stock Split On August 28, 2020, the Company effected a four-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of August 24, 2020. All share, restricted stock unit (RSU) and per share or per RSU information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. Holders As of October 16, 2020, there were 22,797 shareholders of record. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September 26, 2020 was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) June 28, 2020 to August 1, 2020: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 67,990 $ 94.68 67,990 August 2, 2020 to August 29, 2020: May 2020 ASR 3,115 (2) 3,115 Open market and privately negotiated purchases 40,004 $ 115.99 40,004 August 30, 2020 to September 26, 2020: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 60,725 $ 114.00 60,725 Total 171,834 $ 56,353 (1) As of September 26, 2020, the Company was authorized to purchase up to $225 billion of the Companys common stock under a share repurchase program announced on April 30, 2020, of which $168.6 billion had been utilized. The remaining $56.4 billion in the table represents the amount available to repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program as of September 26, 2020. The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under this program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. (2) In May 2020, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase arrangement (ASR) to purchase up to $6.0 billion of the Companys common stock. In August 2020, the purchase period for this ASR ended and an additional 3 million shares were delivered and retired. In total, 64 million shares were delivered under this ASR at an average repurchase price of $94.14. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 17 Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September 26, 2020. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index as of the market close on September 25, 2015. Note that past stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. * $100 invested on September 25, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Data points are the last day of each fiscal year for the Companys common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright 2020 Standard & Poors, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. Copyright 2020 S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. September 2015 September 2016 September 2017 September 2018 September 2019 September 2020 Apple Inc. $ 100 $ 100 $ 140 $ 208 $ 204 $ 424 S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 115 $ 137 $ 161 $ 168 $ 194 S&P Information Technology Index $ 100 $ 123 $ 158 $ 208 $ 226 $ 333 Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index $ 100 $ 122 $ 156 $ 205 $ 218 $ 325 Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September 26, 2020, is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts). 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total net sales $ 274,515 $ 260,174 $ 265,595 $ 229,234 $ 215,639 Net income $ 57,411 $ 55,256 $ 59,531 $ 48,351 $ 45,687 Earnings per share: Basic $ 3.31 $ 2.99 $ 3.00 $ 2.32 $ 2.09 Diluted $ 3.28 $ 2.97 $ 2.98 $ 2.30 $ 2.08 Cash dividends declared per share $ 0.795 $ 0.75 $ 0.68 $ 0.60 $ 0.545 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 17,352,119 18,471,336 19,821,510 20,868,968 21,883,281 Diluted 17,528,214 18,595,651 20,000,435 21,006,767 22,001,126 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 191,830 $ 205,898 $ 237,100 $ 268,895 $ 237,585 Total assets $ 323,888 $ 338,516 $ 365,725 $ 375,319 $ 321,686 Non-current portion of term debt $ 98,667 $ 91,807 $ 93,735 $ 97,207 $ 75,427 Other non-current liabilities $ 54,490 $ 50,503 $ 48,914 $ 44,212 $ 39,986 Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 19 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019. Fiscal Year Highlights COVID-19 Update COVID-19 has spread rapidly throughout the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by many countries in response have adversely affected and could in the future materially adversely impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. During 2020, aspects of the Companys business were adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, with many of the Companys retail stores, as well as channel partner points of sale, temporarily closed at various times, and the vast majority of the Companys employees working remotely. The Company has reopened some of its offices and the majority of its retail stores, subject to operating restrictions to protect public health and the health and safety of employees and customers, and it continues to work on safely re-opening the remainder of its offices and retail stores, subject to local rules and regulations. The full extent of the future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Companys operational and financial performance is currently uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Companys control, including, without limitation, the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic, the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, the imposition of protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and demand for consumer products. Refer to Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, for more information. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations. Fiscal 2020 Highlights Total net sales increased 6% or $14.3 billion during 2020 compared to 2019, primarily driven by higher net sales of Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories. The weakness in foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on net sales during 2020. In April 2020, the Company announced an increase to its current share repurchase program authorization from $175 billion to $225 billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $0.1925 to $0.205 per share beginning in May 2020. During 2020, the Company repurchased $72.5 billion of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion. On August 28, 2020, the Company effected a four-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of August 24, 2020. All share, RSU and per share or per RSU information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 20 Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales by category for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in millions): 2020 Change 2019 Change 2018 Net sales by category: iPhone (1) $ 137,781 (3) % $ 142,381 (14) % $ 164,888 Mac (1) 28,622 11 % 25,740 2 % 25,198 iPad (1) 23,724 11 % 21,280 16 % 18,380 Wearables, Home and Accessories (1)(2) 30,620 25 % 24,482 41 % 17,381 Services (3) 53,768 16 % 46,291 16 % 39,748 Total net sales $ 274,515 6 % $ 260,174 (2) % $ 265,595 (1) Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled in the sales price of the respective product. (2) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales of AirPods, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. (3) Services net sales include sales from the Companys advertising, AppleCare, digital content and other services. Services net sales also include amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri, and free iCloud storage and Apple TV+ services, which are bundled in the sales price of certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the absence of new iPhone models in the fourth quarter of 2020 and the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the introduction of iPhone SE in the third quarter of 2020. Mac Mac net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of MacBook Pro. iPad iPad net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of 10-inch versions of iPad, iPad Air and iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of AirPods and Apple Watch. Services Services net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales from the App Store, advertising and cloud services. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 21 Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Companys other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Companys customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Companys reportable segments can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in millions): 2020 Change 2019 Change 2018 Net sales by reportable segment: Americas $ 124,556 7 % $ 116,914 4 % $ 112,093 Europe 68,640 14 % 60,288 (3) % 62,420 Greater China 40,308 (8) % 43,678 (16) % 51,942 Japan 21,418 % 21,506 (1) % 21,733 Rest of Asia Pacific 19,593 10 % 17,788 2 % 17,407 Total net sales $ 274,515 6 % $ 260,174 (2) % $ 265,595 Americas Americas net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Americas net sales during 2020. Europe Europe net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Europe net sales during 2020. Greater China Greater China net sales decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone, partially offset by higher net sales of Services and iPad. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Greater China net sales during 2020. Japan Japan net sales were flat during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone, offset by higher net sales of Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories. The strength of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Japan net sales during 2020. Rest of Asia Pacific Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of Wearables, Home and Accessories, Services and iPhone. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2020. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 22 Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2020 2019 2018 Gross margin: Products $ 69,461 $ 68,887 $ 77,683 Services 35,495 29,505 24,156 Total gross margin $ 104,956 $ 98,392 $ 101,839 Gross margin percentage: Products 31.5 % 32.2 % 34.4 % Services 66.0 % 63.7 % 60.8 % Total gross margin percentage 38.2 % 37.8 % 38.3 % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher Products volume and material cost savings, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and a different Products mix. Products gross margin percentage decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and a different Products mix, partially offset by material cost savings and higher leverage. Services Gross Margin Services gross margin increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher Services net sales and a different Services mix. Services gross margin percentage increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to a different Services mix and higher leverage, partially offset by higher Services costs. The Companys future gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be subject to volatility and remain under downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2020 Change 2019 Change 2018 Research and development $ 18,752 16 % $ 16,217 14 % $ 14,236 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 6 % 5 % Selling, general and administrative $ 19,916 9 % $ 18,245 9 % $ 16,705 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 7 % 6 % Total operating expenses $ 38,668 12 % $ 34,462 11 % $ 30,941 Percentage of total net sales 14 % 13 % 12 % Research and Development The year-over-year growth in R&D expense in 2020 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace, and to the development of new and updated products and services that are central to the Companys core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth in selling, general and administrative expense in 2020 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses, higher spending on marketing and advertising, and higher variable selling expenses. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 23 Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net (OI&E) for 2020, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (dollars in millions): 2020 Change 2019 Change 2018 Interest and dividend income $ 3,763 $ 4,961 $ 5,686 Interest expense (2,873) (3,576) (3,240) Other income/(expense), net (87) 422 (441) Total other income/(expense), net $ 803 (56) % $ 1,807 (10) % $ 2,005 The year-over-year decrease in OI&E during 2020 was due primarily to lower interest income and net impairment/gain activity on non-marketable securities, partially offset by lower interest expense. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 1.85% and 2.19% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2020 2019 2018 Provision for income taxes $ 9,680 $ 10,481 $ 13,372 Effective tax rate 14.4 % 15.9 % 18.3 % Statutory federal income tax rate 21 % 21 % 24.5 % The Companys effective tax rate for both 2020 and 2019 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to the lower tax rate on foreign earnings, including the impact of tax settlements, and tax benefits from share-based compensation. The Companys effective tax rate for 2020 was lower compared to 2019 due primarily to a one-time adjustment of U.S. foreign tax credits in response to regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in December 2019 in connection with the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act) and higher tax benefits from share-based compensation. As of September 26, 2020, the Company had net deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences and tax credits of $11.0 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $2.8 billion. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to recover the net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to evaluate the amount of the valuation allowance, if any, by assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Financial Instruments In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13), which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses on certain financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-13 in its first quarter of 2021 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based on the composition of the Companys investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of and for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 (in millions): 2020 2019 2018 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (1) $ 191,830 $ 205,898 $ 237,100 Property, plant and equipment, net $ 36,766 $ 37,378 $ 41,304 Commercial paper $ 4,996 $ 5,980 $ 11,964 Total term debt $ 107,440 $ 102,067 $ 102,519 Working capital $ 38,321 $ 57,101 $ 15,410 Cash generated by operating activities $ 80,674 $ 69,391 $ 77,434 Cash generated by/(used in) investing activities $ (4,289) $ 45,896 $ 16,066 Cash used in financing activities $ (86,820) $ (90,976) $ (87,876) (1) As of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, total marketable securities included $18.6 billion and $18.9 billion, respectively, that was restricted from general use, related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 5, Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) and other agreements. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. In connection with the State Aid Decision, as of September 26, 2020, the adjusted recovery amount of 12.9 billion plus interest of 1.2 billion was funded into escrow, where it will remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion of all legal proceedings. Further information regarding the State Aid Decision can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 5, Income Taxes. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly rated securities, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Companys investment policy generally requires securities to be investment grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. During 2020, cash generated by operating activities of $80.7 billion was a result of $57.4 billion of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $17.6 billion and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 billion. Cash used in investing activities of $4.3 billion during 2020 consisted primarily of cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $7.3 billion and cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1.5 billion, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $5.5 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $86.8 billion during 2020 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $72.4 billion, cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion, cash used to repay or redeem term debt of $12.6 billion and net repayments of commercial paper of $1.0 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of term debt of $16.1 billion. During 2019, cash generated by operating activities of $69.4 billion was a result of $55.3 billion of net income and non-cash adjustments to net income of $17.6 billion, partially offset by a decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $3.5 billion. Cash generated by investing activities of $45.9 billion during 2019 consisted primarily of proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $57.5 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $10.5 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $91.0 billion during 2019 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $66.9 billion, cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion, cash used to repay term debt of $8.8 billion and net repayments of commercial paper of $6.0 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of term debt of $7.0 billion. Debt The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper) pursuant to a commercial paper program. The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. As of September 26, 2020, the Company had $5.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.62% and maturities generally less than nine months. The Company may enter into agreements to sell certain of its marketable securities with a promise to repurchase the securities at a specified time and amount as an additional short-term liquidity arrangement. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 25 As of September 26, 2020, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $106.1 billion (collectively the Notes). During 2020, the Company issued $16.1 billion and repaid or redeemed $12.6 billion of Notes. The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on the Notes. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps to manage foreign currency risk on the Notes. Further information regarding the Companys debt issuances and related hedging activity can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 3, Financial Instruments and Note 6, Debt. Capital Return Program As of September 26, 2020, the Company was authorized to purchase up to $225 billion of the Companys common stock under a share repurchase program, of which $168.6 billion had been utilized. During 2020, the Company repurchased 917 million shares of its common stock for $72.5 billion, including 141 million shares delivered under a $10.0 billion November 2019 ASR and 64 million shares delivered under a $6.0 billion May 2020 ASR. The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under this program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. As of September 26, 2020, the Companys quarterly cash dividend was $0.205 per share. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Contractual Obligations The following table presents certain payments due by the Company as of September 26, 2020, and includes amounts already recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for manufacturing purchase obligations, other purchase obligations and certain lease obligations (in millions): Payments due in 2021 Payments due in 20222023 Payments due in 20242025 Payments due after 2025 Total Term debt $ 8,750 $ 20,958 $ 21,029 $ 55,341 $ 106,078 Leases 1,622 3,097 2,352 5,888 12,959 Manufacturing purchase obligations (1) 47,961 1,849 61 40 49,911 Other purchase obligations 6,178 2,736 400 90 9,404 Deemed repatriation tax payable 1,533 5,923 12,955 9,254 29,665 Total $ 66,044 $ 34,563 $ 36,797 $ 70,613 $ 208,017 (1) Represents amount expected to be paid under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, which are primarily noncancelable. Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including retail, corporate, manufacturing and data center space. The Companys retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. The above contractual obligations table includes future payments under leases that had commenced as of September 26, 2020, and were therefore recorded on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet, as well as leases that had been signed but not yet commenced as of September 26, 2020. Further information regarding the Companys leases can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 12, Leases. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Other Purchase Obligations The Companys other purchase obligations consist of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related to advertising, licensing, R&D, Internet and telecommunications services, content creation and other activities. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 26 Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable As of September 26, 2020, a significant portion of the other non-current liabilities in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the Act. The Company plans to pay the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments in accordance with the Act. Other Non-Current Liabilities The Companys remaining other non-current liabilities primarily consist of items for which the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing or amount of payments; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligations table. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation of manufacturing-related assets and estimation of inventory purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition The Company has identified up to three performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion of the allocated sales price, is the hardware and bundled software delivered at the time of sale. The second performance obligation is the right to receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation is the right to receive, on a when-and-if-available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating to the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts to these performance obligations based on their relative stand-alone selling prices (SSPs). Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation of revenue is based on the Companys estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated to the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected to be provided. The Companys process for determining estimated SSPs involves managements judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Companys SSPs and the future rate of related amortization for product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights related to future sales of these devices could change. Factors subject to change include the nature of the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights offered, their estimated value and the estimated period they are expected to be provided. Valuation of Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimation of Inventory Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company invests in manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities and prepayments provided to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term agreements to secure the supply of inventory. The Company also accrues estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees related to inventory orders that have been canceled or are expected to be canceled. The Companys estimates of future product development plans and demand for its products are key inputs in determining the recoverability of manufacturing-related assets and assessing the adequacy of any purchase commitment cancellation fee accruals. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in estimated demand for one or more of the Companys products, a change in the Companys product development plans, or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record write-downs or impairments of manufacturing-related assets or accrue purchase commitment cancellation fees. Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 27 Warranty Costs The Company offers limited warranties on its new and certified refurbished hardware products and on parts used to repair its hardware products, and customers may purchase extended service coverage, where available, on many of the Companys hardware products. The Company accrues the estimated cost of warranties in the period the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim and knowledge of specific product failures outside the Companys typical experience. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required. Income Taxes The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater-than-50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant judgment. Except as described in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies under the heading Contingencies, in the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss greater than a recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above managements expectations, the Companys financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected.