Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. For example, statements in this Form 10-K regarding the potential future impact of macroeconomic conditions and tariffs and other measures on the Companys business and results of operations are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar, and references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells a variety of related services. The Companys fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. Products iPhone iPhone is the Companys line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. The iPhone line includes iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone Air, iPhone 17, iPhone 16 and iPhone 16e. Mac Mac is the Companys line of personal computers based on its macOS operating system. The Mac line includes laptops MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, as well as desktops iMac, Mac mini, Mac Studio and Mac Pro. iPad iPad is the Companys line of multipurpose tablets based on its iPadOS operating system. The iPad line includes iPad Pro, iPad Air, iPad and iPad mini. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables includes smartwatches, wireless headphones and spatial computers. The Companys line of smartwatches, based on its watchOS operating system, includes Apple Watch Series 11, Apple Watch SE 3 and Apple Watch Ultra 3. The Companys line of wireless headphones includes AirPods, AirPods Pro, AirPods Max and Beats products. Apple Vision Pro is the Companys spatial computer based on its visionOS operating system. Home includes Apple TV 4K, the Companys media streaming and gaming device based on its tvOS operating system, and HomePod and HomePod mini, high-fidelity wireless smart speakers. Accessories includes Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 1 Services Advertising The Companys advertising services include third-party licensing arrangements and the Companys own advertising platforms. AppleCare The Company offers a portfolio of fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare brand. The offerings provide priority access to Apple technical support, access to the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and in many cases additional coverage for instances of accidental damage or theft and loss, depending on the country and type of product. Cloud Services The Companys cloud services store and keep customers content up-to-date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers. Digital Content The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store, that allow customers to discover and download applications and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts. The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade, a game service; Apple Fitness+, a personalized fitness service; Apple Music, which offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations; Apple News+, a news and magazine service; and Apple TV, which offers exclusive original content and live sports. Payment Services The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay, a cashless payment service. Segments The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia, New Zealand and those Asian countries not included in the Companys other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Companys customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Markets and Distribution The Companys customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company sells its services in the same markets through its various service platforms. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers and other resellers, for the sale of its products and certain of its services. During 2025, the Companys net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 40% and 60%, respectively, of total net sales. Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and are characterized by aggressive price competition, downward pressure on gross margins, continual improvement in product performance, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The markets in which the Company competes are further defined by frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, and rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors. Many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by imitating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 2 The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design and technology innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, corporate reputation, and the ability to effectively protect and enforce the Companys intellectual property rights. The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and services. The Companys products and services face substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. In addition, the Company faces significant competition as competitors imitate the Companys product features and applications within their products to offer more competitive solutions. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors imitate the Companys approach to providing components seamlessly within their offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. Some of the Companys competitors have broad product lines, low-priced products, large installed bases of active devices, and large customer bases. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer, tablet and wearables markets, and some of the markets in which the Company competes have from time to time experienced little to no growth or contracted overall. Supply of Components Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants in the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. Restrictions on international trade can increase the cost or limit the availability of the Companys products and the components and rare earths and other raw materials that go into them. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, the Company may not be able to extend or renew agreements for the supply of components on similar terms, or at all, and may not be successful in obtaining sufficient quantities from its suppliers or in a timely manner, or in identifying and obtaining sufficient quantities from an alternative source. In addition, component suppliers may fail, be subject to consolidation within a particular industry, or decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements, further limiting the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Research and Development Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through research and development (R&D), licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware, software and services. This includes patents, designs, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in differentiating its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. The Company regularly files patent, design, copyright and trademark applications to protect innovations arising from its hardware, software and service research, development, design and marketing, and is currently pursuing thousands of applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued and registered intellectual property rights around the world. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Companys products and services. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products and services. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 3 In addition to Company-owned intellectual property, many of the Companys products and services include technology or intellectual property that must be licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of the Companys products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. The timing of product introductions can also impact the Companys net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new inventory following a product launch, and channel inventory of an older product often declines as the launch of a newer product approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction. Human Capital The Company believes that its people play an important role in its success, and strives to attract, develop and retain the best talent. The Company works to create a culture of collaboration, one where people with a broad range of backgrounds and perspectives can come together to innovate and do the best work of their lives. The Company is an equal opportunity employer committed to inclusion and to providing a workplace free of harassment or discrimination. As of September 27, 2025, the Company had approximately 166,000 full-time equivalent employees. The Company believes that compensation should be competitive and equitable, and offers discretionary cash and equity awards to enable employees to share in the Companys success. The Company recognizes its people are most likely to thrive when they have the resources to meet their needs and the time and support to succeed in their professional and personal lives. In support of this, the Company offers a wide variety of benefits for employees around the world, including health, wellness and time away. The Company invests in resources to help its people develop and achieve their career goals. The Company offers programs through Apple University on leadership, management and influence, as well as Apple culture and values. Team members can also take advantage of online classes for business, technical and personal development. The Company believes that open and honest communication among team members, managers and leaders helps create an open, collaborative work environment where everyone can contribute, grow and succeed. Team members are encouraged to come to their managers with questions, feedback or concerns, and the Company conducts surveys that gauge employee sentiment in areas like career development, manager performance and inclusion. The Company is committed to the safety and security of its team members everywhere it operates. The Company supports employees with general safety, security and crisis management training, and by putting specific programs in place for those working in potentially high-hazard environments. Available Information The Companys Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge at investor.apple.com/investor-relations/sec-filings/default.aspx when such reports are available on the SECs website. The Company periodically provides certain information for investors on its corporate website, www.apple.com, and its investor relations website, investor.apple.com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information on corporate governance, and details related to the Companys annual meeting of shareholders. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Companys references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors The following summarizes factors that could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company may not be able to accurately predict, control or mitigate these risks. Statements in this section are based on the Companys beliefs and opinions regarding matters that could materially adversely affect the Company in the future and are not representations as to whether such matters have or have not occurred previously. The risks and uncertainties described below are not exhaustive and should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties that the Company faces or may face in the future. This section should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Macroeconomic and Industry Risks The Companys operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company has international operations with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Companys total net sales. In addition, the Companys global supply chain is large and complex and a majority of the Companys supplier facilities, including manufacturing and assembly sites, are located outside the U.S. As a result, the Companys operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including slow growth or recession, high unemployment, inflation, tighter credit, higher interest rates, and currency fluctuations, can adversely impact consumer confidence and spending and materially adversely affect demand for the Companys products and services. In addition, consumer confidence and spending can be materially adversely affected in response to changes in fiscal and monetary policy, financial market volatility, declines in income or asset values, and other economic factors. Uncertainty about, or a decline in, global or regional economic conditions can also have a significant impact on the Companys suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners, and developers. Potential outcomes include financial instability; inability to obtain credit to finance business operations; and insolvency. Adverse economic conditions can also lead to increased credit and collectibility risk on the Companys trade receivables; the failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations on the Companys ability to issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines in the fair values of the Companys financial instruments. These and other impacts can materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 5 The Companys business can be impacted by political events, trade and other international disputes, geopolitical tensions, conflict, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions. Political events, trade and other international disputes, geopolitical tensions, conflict, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions can have a material adverse effect on the Company and its customers, employees, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. The Company has a large, global business with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Companys total net sales, and the Company believes that it generally benefits from growth in international trade. A significant majority of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, in addition to sourcing from partners and facilities located in the U.S. Restrictions on international trade, such as tariffs and other controls on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, can materially adversely affect the Companys business and supply chain. The impact can be particularly significant if these restrictive measures apply to countries and regions where the Company derives a significant portion of its revenues and/or has significant supply chain operations. Restrictive measures can increase the cost or limit the availability of the Companys products and the components and rare earths and other raw materials that go into them. Restrictive measures can also require the Company to change suppliers, restructure business relationships and operations, refrain from offering and distributing or cease to offer and distribute affected products, services and third-party applications to its customers, and increase the prices of its products and services. Changing the Companys business and supply chain in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to the Companys business and results of operations. Trade and other international disputes can also have an adverse impact on the overall macroeconomic environment and result in shifts and reductions in consumer spending and negative consumer sentiment for the Companys products and services, all of which can further adversely affect the Companys business and results of operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice, which can create uncertainty, and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate any or all adverse impacts from such measures. Global supply chains can be highly concentrated, and an escalation of geopolitical tensions or conflict could result in significant disruptions. Beginning in the second quarter of 2025, new tariffs were announced on imports to the U.S. (U.S. Tariffs), including additional tariffs on imports from China, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam and the European Union (EU), among others. In response, several countries have imposed, or threatened to impose, reciprocal tariffs on imports from the U.S. and other retaliatory measures. Various modifications to the U.S. Tariffs have been announced and further changes could be made in the future, which may include additional sector-based tariffs or other measures. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has initiated an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, into, among other things, imports of semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and their derivative products, including downstream products that contain semiconductors. The ultimate impact remains uncertain and will depend on several factors, including whether additional or incremental U.S. Tariffs or other measures are announced or imposed, to what extent other countries implement tariffs or other retaliatory measures in response, and the overall magnitude and duration of these measures. If disputes and conflicts further escalate, actions by governments in response could be significantly more severe and restrictive. Many of the Companys operations, retail stores and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the Companys suppliers and contract manufacturers, are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural disasters and extreme weather occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. In addition, the Companys and its suppliers operations, retail stores and facilities are subject to the risk of interruption by fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond the Companys control. Such events can make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture and deliver products to its customers, create delays and inefficiencies in the Companys supply and manufacturing chain, result in slowdowns and outages to the Companys service offerings, increase the Companys costs, and negatively impact consumer spending and demand in affected areas. The Companys operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Companys suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur and could result in serious injuries or loss of life, disruption to the Companys business, and harm to the Companys reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely affected, and could in the future materially adversely affect, the Company due to their impact on the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition of protective public safety measures, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of products between regions; and disruptions in the Companys operations, supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions to the supply of current products and offering of existing services, and delays in production ramps of new products and development of new services. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 6 Following any interruption to its business, the Company can require substantial recovery time, incur significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. Because the Company relies on single or limited sources for the supply and manufacture of many critical components, a business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences to the Company. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of losses, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses that may arise. Any of the foregoing can materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Global markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The Companys products and services are offered in highly competitive global markets. These markets are characterized by aggressive price competition, downward pressure on gross margins, continual improvement in product performance, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. These markets are further defined by frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, and rapid adoption of technological advancements. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in R&D. These investments may not achieve expected returns, and the Company may not be able to develop and market new products and services successfully. The Companys ability to compete successfully also depends on the effective protection and enforcement of its intellectual property rights. Regulatory requirements, government investigations and litigation can force the Company to withdraw from, or modify its products and services for, certain countries and limit its ability to derive value from, or to enjoin others from using, its intellectual property rights. Additionally, they may require the Company to share its innovations with competitors. Any of these outcomes can have a negative impact on the Companys competitive advantage and materially adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company currently holds a significant number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and has registered, and applied to register, additional patents, trademarks and copyrights. In contrast, many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by imitating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection is not consistently available in every country in which the Company operates. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if competitors infringe on the Companys intellectual property, the Companys ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be materially adversely affected. The Companys products and services face substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and service offerings. In addition, the Company faces significant competition as competitors imitate the Companys product features and applications within their products to offer more competitive solutions. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors imitate the Companys approach to providing components seamlessly within their offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. Some of the Companys competitors have broad product lines, low-priced products, large installed bases of active devices, and large customer bases. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer, tablet and wearables markets, and some of the markets in which the Company competes have from time to time experienced little to no growth or contracted overall. If the Company is unable to compete successfully, its business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 7 Business Risks To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions of products and services. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the markets and industries in which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, navigate global regulatory requirements and barriers to market access, and successfully manage the transition to these new and upgraded products and services. The success of new product and service introductions depends on a number of factors, including the Companys ability to recruit and retain highly skilled personnel to execute on its strategic initiatives, and the timely and successful development and market acceptance of new products, services and technologies. Success also relies on the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with new technologies and production ramp-up issues, the effective integration of third-party services and technologies into the Companys products and services, the availability, delivery and performance of application software or other third-party support for the Companys products and services, the effective management of manufacturing and other purchase commitments and the management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the availability of products in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand. Additionally, quality issues or other defects or deficiencies can adversely affect the success of new product and service introductions and market acceptance. New products, services and technologies may replace or supersede existing offerings and may produce lower revenues and lower profit margins. The Company may not be able to successfully manage future introductions and transitions of products and services, which can materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S. A significant majority of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, in addition to sourcing from partners and facilities located in the U.S. The Company relies on single-source partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe to supply and manufacture many components, and on partners primarily located in Asia, for final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control has from time to time had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on the cost, quality or quantity of products manufactured or services provided, or adversely affect the Companys flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible to the consumer for warranty and out-of-warranty service in the event of product defects and experiences unanticipated product defect liabilities from time to time. While the Company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, violations of the supplier code of conduct occur from time to time and can materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Changes or additions to the Companys supply chain require considerable time and resources and involve significant risks and uncertainties, including exposure to additional regulatory and operational risks. Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities on commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. For example, the global semiconductor industry has in the past experienced high demand and shortages of supply, which adversely affected the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Such disruptions could occur in the future. Additionally, the Companys new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The Company may not be able to extend or renew agreements for the supply of components on similar terms, or at all, and may not be successful in obtaining sufficient quantities from its suppliers in a timely manner, or in identifying and obtaining sufficient quantities from an alternative source. In addition, component suppliers may fail, be subject to consolidation within a particular industry, or decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements, further limiting the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 8 The Companys products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Companys business and result in harm to the Companys reputation. The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products and services. Defects can also exist in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Companys products unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase as the Companys products are introduced into specialized applications, including health. In addition, the Companys service offerings can have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. As a result, from time to time the Companys services have not performed as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. The introduction of new and complex technologies, such as artificial intelligence features, can increase these and other safety risks, including exposing users to harmful, inaccurate or other negative content and experiences. The Company may not be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in the hardware, software and services it offers, which can result in widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Companys products and services. Errors, bugs and vulnerabilities can be exploited by third parties, compromising the safety and security of a users device. In addition, the Company can be exposed to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can adversely affect the experience for users of the Companys products and services, and result in harm to the Companys reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales. The Company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories if cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company reviews other assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities, inventory prepayments and other long-lived assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the assets may not be recoverable. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets are currently recoverable, the Company may incur write-downs, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods up to 150 days. Because the Companys markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize purchase commitments. The Company accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company relies on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Companys products and services include technology or intellectual property that must be licensed from third parties. In addition, because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company currently competes or in the future may compete, current extensive intellectual property coverage and the rapid rate of new intellectual property rights generation, the Companys products and services may be alleged to infringe existing intellectual property rights of others. This risk may be exacerbated by the use of new and emerging technologies, including machine learning and artificial intelligence, which can involve, among other things, the acquisition and use of copyrighted materials for training as well as the potential reproduction of copyrighted materials in their outputs. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company is not always able to obtain all necessary licenses to third-party intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, can require the Company to modify certain products, services or features or preclude the Company from selling certain products or services and expose the Company to significant licensing costs, all of which can materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 9 The Companys future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. Third-party developers may discontinue the development and maintenance of software applications and services for the Companys products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Companys products, customers may choose not to buy the Companys products, adversely impacting the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company believes that third-party developer support depends on the perceived benefits of creating software and services for the Companys products compared to competitors platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox for gaming platforms. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of product sales, and the costs of developing such applications and services. The Companys minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer, tablet and wearables markets can make developers less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Companys products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for competitors products with larger market share. When developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Companys devices can suffer. The Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Companys products and operating systems are subject to rapid technological change, and when third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, their applications can fail to take advantage of these changes to deliver improved customer experiences, can operate incorrectly, and can result in dissatisfied customers and lower customer demand for the Companys products. Failure to obtain or create digital content that appeals to the Companys customers, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content to customers. This includes the right to sell, or offer subscriptions to, third-party content, as well as the right to incorporate specific content into the Companys own services. The licensing or other distribution arrangements for this content can be for relatively short time periods and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions to make it difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Companys access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules. The Company also produces its own digital content, which can be costly to produce due to intense and increasing competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail to appeal to the Companys customers. The Companys success depends largely on the talents and efforts of its team members, the continued service and availability of highly skilled employees, including key personnel, and the Companys ability to nurture its distinctive and inclusive culture. Much of the Companys future success depends on the talents and efforts of its team members and the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Companys key personnel are located. Periods of intense competition for talent in particular fields can lead to increased costs as the Company seeks to offer competitive compensation to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. In addition to competition for talent, workforce dynamics are constantly evolving and the Company must navigate changes effectively in order to achieve its strategic initiatives. Laws and regulations, including immigration, labor and employment laws and export controls, among others, can materially adversely affect the Companys ability to recruit and retain a highly skilled, global workforce. If the Company does not effectively manage changing workforce dynamics and regulatory requirements, it could materially adversely affect the Companys culture, operational flexibility, strategy and costs, all of which can materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company believes that its distinctive and inclusive culture is a significant driver of its success. If the Company is unable to nurture its culture, it could materially adversely affect the Companys ability to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees who are critical to its success, and could otherwise materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 10 The Company depends on the performance of carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through cellular network carriers and other resellers, many of which distribute products and services from competitors. Resellers offer financing, installment payment plans or subsidies for users purchases of devices, and such plans may be discontinued or modified any time. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers stores with Company employees and contractors, improving product placement displays, and developing and making digital marketing assets available to resellers. These programs can require a substantial investment while not assuring return or incremental sales. For example, the purchasing preferences and behaviors of consumers may change, the financial condition of resellers could weaken, resellers could stop distributing the Companys products, or uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the Companys products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products, all of which could materially adversely impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Companys business and reputation are impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions. The Company and its global supply chain are dependent on complex information technology systems and are exposed to information technology system failures or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents, or other events or disruptions. System upgrades, redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Companys or its vendors business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions can adversely impact the Companys business by, among other things, preventing access to the Companys online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Companys products. These events could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information, including personal information, could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Companys business requires it to use and store confidential information, including personal and sensitive health and financial information with respect to the Companys customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources to systems and data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measures intended to protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Companys business also requires it to share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. The Company relies on global suppliers that are also exposed to ransomware and other malicious attacks that can disrupt business operations. Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to or accessible by third parties working on the Companys behalf, such measures are not always effective and losses or unauthorized access to, or releases of, confidential information occur. Such incidents and other malicious attacks could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to its systems on a regular basis. These attacks target the confidentiality, integrity or availability of confidential information and may disrupt normal business operations. Attacks can impair the Companys ability to attract and retain customers for its products and services, affect its stock price, damage commercial relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, potentially resulting in penalties, fines or judgments. Globally, attacks are expected to continue accelerating in both frequency and sophistication with increasing use by actors of tools and techniques that are designed to circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove or obfuscate forensic evidence, all of which hinders the Companys ability to identify, investigate and recover from incidents. In addition, attacks against the Company and its customers can escalate during periods of geopolitical tensions or conflict. Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including personal information, affect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 11 As with all companies, the security the Company has implemented may not be sufficient for all eventualities and are vulnerable to hacking, ransomware attacks, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties can fraudulently induce the Companys or its suppliers and other third parties employees or customers into disclosing usernames, passwords or other sensitive information, which can, in turn, be used for unauthorized access to the Companys or such suppliers or third parties systems and services. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company deploys and makes available technologies like multifactor authentication, monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, can result in the delay or loss of customer orders or impede customer access to the Companys products and services. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Investment in new business strategies, commercial relationships and acquisitions could disrupt the Companys ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated, and materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies, commercial relationships and acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating in new businesses, regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. Some transactions, including investments and acquisitions, are exposed to additional risks, including failing to obtain required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all, a counterpartys failure to perform or deliver as anticipated, or the imposition of onerous conditions that could delay or prevent the Company from completing a transaction or otherwise limit the Companys ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. New business strategies and ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. The Companys business strategies and investments may not be successful, which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks The Companys business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings or government investigations. The Company is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matters may arise in the future. In addition, the Company enters into agreements that include indemnification provisions that can subject the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. The number of claims, legal proceedings and government investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude of such claims, proceedings and government investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue to increase. The Company has faced and continues to face a significant number of patent claims relating to its standards-enabled products, and new claims may arise in the future, including as a result of new legal or regulatory frameworks. For example, technology, data and other intellectual property assetholding companies frequently assert their intellectual property rights and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. These risks, and the risks of novel claims being attempted, may be exacerbated as new and emerging technologies, including machine learning and artificial intelligence, are further integrated into the Companys products and services. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in several U.S. jurisdictions, as well as internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek broad injunctive relief and substantial damages. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, defending against litigation or responding to government investigations can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to the Companys operations. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such challenges. However, such agreements may not always be available on acceptable terms, and litigation may still arise. Such agreements can also significantly reduce the Companys revenue and increase the Companys cost of sales and operating expenses, materially adversely affecting the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Additionally, such agreements may require the Company to change its business practices and limit the Companys ability to offer certain products and services. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 12 The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above managements expectations, the Companys results of operations, financial condition and stock price for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome can result in significant monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company. Adverse resolution of legal matters has from time to time required, and can in the future require, the Company to change its business practices. It can also limit the Companys ability to enjoin others from using, or to derive value from, its intellectual property rights, and to develop, manufacture, use, import or offer for sale certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. The Company is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Companys business. The Companys global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide on subjects including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; online safety; age verification; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; financial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; machine learning and artificial intelligence; internet, telecommunications and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; antimoney laundering; foreign ownership and investment; national security; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, product design and climate change. Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive. New and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities can adversely affect the Companys business by increasing the Companys costs, limiting the Companys ability to offer a product, service or feature to customers, imposing changes to the design of the Companys products and services, impacting customer demand for the Companys products and services, and requiring changes to the Companys business or supply chain. New and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities can also create uncertainty about how such laws and regulations will be interpreted and applied. If the Company is found to have violated such laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Risks and costs related to new and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities increase as the Companys products and services are introduced into specialized applications, including health and financial services, or as the Company expands the use of technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence features, and must navigate new legal, regulatory and ethical considerations relating to such technologies. Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Companys business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. For example, the Company is subject to changing regulations relating to the export and import of its products. The Companys programs, policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing a violation or a claim of a violation. As a result, the Companys products could be banned, delayed or prohibited from importation, which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Varied stakeholder expectations about social and other issues expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other adverse effects on the Companys business. Various stakeholders, including governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and others, have differing expectations about a wide range of social and other issues related to the Companys business. The Company makes statements about its values, including the environmental and societal impact of its business, through various reports, information provided on the Companys website, and in press statements and other communications. The Company also pursues environmental and other goals and initiatives that involve risks and uncertainties, require investments, and depend in part on third-party performance or data that is outside the Companys control, and the Company may not be able to fully achieve all of its goals and initiatives. Efforts by the Company to advance its business and values, or achieve its goals and further its initiatives, or to align with stakeholders expectations, or comply with evolving, varied and at times conflicting federal, state and international laws, executive orders, regulations and standards, or any failure or perceived failure to do so, can result in adverse reactions by consumers and other stakeholders, including the commencement of legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company, and can materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 13 The technology industry, including, in some instances, the Company, is subject to intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company to increasing regulation, government investigations, legal actions and penalties. From time to time, the Company has made changes to its business, including actions taken in response to litigation, competition, market conditions and legal and regulatory requirements. The Company expects to make further business changes in the future. For example, in the U.S., the Company has implemented changes to how developers communicate with consumers within apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms and is currently subject to a court order preventing it from imposing any commission or fee on certain purchases that consumers make. Globally, several jurisdictions have adopted, or may in the future adopt, competition-related laws and regulations imposing wide-ranging obligations on technology companies and significant limitations on businesses, including the Company. For example, the Company has implemented changes to iOS, iPadOS, the App Store and Safari in the EU as it seeks to comply with the Digital Markets Act (DMA), including new business terms and alternative fee structures for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative methods of distribution for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative payment processing for apps across the Companys operating systems, and additional tools and application programming interfaces for developers. The Company has also continued to make changes to its compliance plan in response to feedback and engagement with the Commission. Although the Companys compliance plan is intended to address the DMAs obligations, it has been challenged by the Commission and may be challenged further by private litigants. The DMA provides for significant fines and penalties for noncompliance. While the changes introduced by the Company in the EU are intended to reduce new privacy and security risks that the DMA poses to EU users, many risks will remain. Changes to the Companys business in response to the DMA or other laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company is also currently subject to antitrust investigations and litigation in various jurisdictions around the world, which can result in legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. For example, the Company is subject to civil antitrust lawsuits in the U.S. alleging monopolization or attempted monopolization in the markets for performance smartphones and smartphones generally in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. In addition, the Company is the subject of investigations in Europe and other jurisdictions relating to App Store terms and conditions. If such investigations or litigation are resolved against the Company, the Company can be exposed to significant fines and may be required to make further changes to its business practices, all of which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Further, the Company has commercial relationships with other companies in the technology industry that are or may become subject to investigations and litigation that, if resolved against those other companies, could materially adversely affect the Companys commercial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. For example, the Company earns revenue from licensing arrangements with Google LLC (Google) and other companies to offer their search services on the Companys platforms and applications, and certain of these arrangements are currently subject to government investigations and legal proceedings. On August 5, 2024, Google was found to have violated U.S. antitrust laws. In connection with this finding, on September 2, 2025, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (D.C. District Court) ordered certain remedies. The courts order is subject to further proceedings before the D.C. District Court, which may result in changes to the interpretation or application of the remedies ordered by the court, as well as new or changed remedies being ordered. The courts order is also subject to appeal by both the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Google. A reversal of the order on appeal could result in imposition of certain remedies initially proposed by the DOJ, such as those prohibiting Google from offering the Company commercial terms for search distribution. If implemented, these remedies could materially adversely affect the Companys ability to earn revenue from such licensing arrangements. The Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be materially adversely affected, individually or in the aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in the future. Changes to the Companys business practices to comply with new laws and regulations or in connection with legal proceedings can negatively impact the reputation of the Companys products for privacy and security. Such changes in business practices can also otherwise adversely affect the experience for users of the Companys products and services, and result in harm to the Companys reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, lost sales, and lower profit margins. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 14 The Companys business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding the collection, use, protection and transfer of personal data. The Company is subject to an increasing number of federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, protection and transfer of various types of personal data. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers of personal data among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and additional jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions or have laws that are pending. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements causes the Company to incur substantial costs and has required and may in the future require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure of personal data through its privacy policy, information provided on its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided to customers. Any failure or perceived failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with federal, state or international privacy or data protection laws and regulations could result in inquiries, proceedings and penalties from governmental entities or others. Such a failure or perceived failure could also result in reputational impacts, ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. The risks of inadvertent disclosure of personal data can increase with the introduction of new and complex technologies, such as artificial intelligence features, further exacerbating such risks. In addition to the risks generally relating to the collection, use, retention, protection and transfer of personal data, the Company is also subject to specific obligations relating to the collection and processing of data associated with minors, as well as information considered sensitive under applicable laws, such as health, biometric, financial and payment card data. Health, biometric, financial and payment card data are subject to additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company is subject to audit by governmental authorities regarding the Companys compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, the Company can be subject to litigation or government investigations, can be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can incur significant fees or fines. The Company is also subject to new and changing laws and regulations regarding online safety, including enhanced protections for minors and mandatory age verification requirements. These laws and regulations can increase regulatory risks by requiring complex compliance measures and significant modifications to the Companys products, services and operations, and may lead to operational disruptions, heightened privacy and data security risks, increased costs and potential liability and fines, all of which can have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Financial Risks The Companys net sales and gross margins are subject to volatility and downward pressure due to a variety of factors. The Companys gross margins vary significantly across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels and can change over time. The Companys net sales and gross margins are subject to volatility and downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take in response to such pressures; increased competition; the Companys ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products and services; compressed product life cycles; supply shortages; potential increases in the cost of components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Companys services; the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix, including to the extent that regulatory changes require the Company to modify its product and service offerings; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; inflation and other macroeconomic pressures; the imposition of new or increased tariffs and other trade restrictions, their overall magnitude and duration, and retaliatory actions in response; and the introduction of new products or services, including new products or services with lower profit margins. These and other factors could have a materially adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Further, the Company generates a significant portion of its net sales from a single product category and a decline in demand for that product could significantly impact net sales and gross margins. The Companys financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies. The Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates relates to nonU.S. dollardenominated sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Companys products in foreign countries and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers have in the past been adversely affected and could in the future be materially adversely affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currencydenominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Companys products. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise international pricing to offset the U.S. dollars strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the gross margins the Company earns on foreign currencydenominated sales. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 15 Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Companys foreign currencydenominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing or incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Companys cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the values of its investment portfolio. The Companys investments can be negatively affected by changes in liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Although the Company has not realized significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through third-party cellular network carriers and other resellers. The Company also sells its products and services directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party bank support or financing arrangements, or credit insurance, and a significant portion of the Companys trade receivables can be concentrated within cellular network carriers or other resellers. The Companys exposure to credit and collectibility risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture subassemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 27, 2025, the Companys vendor non-trade receivables were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. If the Company is unable to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, the Companys results of operations, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. The Company is subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation and exposure to additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland and Singapore, where a number of the Companys subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax laws and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development continues to advance proposals for modernizing international tax rules, including the introduction of global minimum tax standards. The Companys effective tax rates are affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction of new taxes, and changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The application of tax laws may be uncertain, require significant judgment and be subject to differing interpretations. The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. The outcome of such examinations is inherently uncertain. If the Companys effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the Companys taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Companys business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 16 General Risks The price of the Companys stock is subject to volatility. The Companys stock has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have, from time to time, experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies operating performance. Price volatility may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its stock in a given period to exceed the stocks price at a given point in time. The Company believes the price of its stock should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability. The Company also believes the price of its stock should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow, and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Companys Board of Directors (Board), and the Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases or other market expectations, the price of the Companys stock may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity The Companys management, led by its Head of Corporate Information Security, has overall responsibility for identifying, assessing and managing any material risks from cybersecurity threats.The Companys Head of Corporate Information Security leads a dedicated Information Security team of highly skilled individuals with experience across industries that, among other things, develops and distributes information security policies, standards and procedures; engages in employee cybersecurity training; implements security controls; assesses security risk and compliance posture; monitors and responds to security events; and executes security testing and assessments.The Companys Head of Corporate Information Security has extensive knowledge and skills gained from over 25 years of experience in the cybersecurity industry, including serving in leadership positions at other large technology companies and leading the Companys Information Security team since 2016. The Companys Information Security team coordinates with teams across the Company to prevent, respond to and manage security incidents, and engages third parties, as appropriate, to assess, test or otherwise assist with aspects of its security processes and incident response. A dedicated Supplier Trust team manages information security risks the Company is exposed to through its supplier relationships. The Company has processes to log, track, address, and escalate for further assessment and report, as appropriate, cybersecurity incidents across the Company and its suppliers to senior management and the Audit and Finance Committee (Audit Committee) of the Board.The Companys enterprise risk management program is designed to identify, assess, and monitor the Companys business risks, including financial, operational, compliance and reputational risks, and reflects managements assessment of cybersecurity risks. The Audit Committee assists the Board in the oversight and monitoring of cybersecurity matters.The Audit Committee regularly reviews and discusses the Companys cybersecurity risks with management, including the Companys Head of Corporate Information Security, its General Counsel and the Heads of Compliance and Business Conduct, Business Assurance, and Internal Audit, and receives updates, as necessary, regarding cybersecurity incidents. The Chair of the Audit Committee regularly reports the substance of such reviews and discussions to the Board, as necessary, and recommends to the Board such actions as the Audit Committee deems appropriate. For a discussion of the Companys cybersecurity-related risks, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Item 2. Properties The Companys headquarters is located in Cupertino, California. As of September 27, 2025, the Company owned or leased facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes at locations throughout the U.S. and in various places outside the U.S. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used by all reportable segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Digital Markets Act Investigations On March 25, 2024, the Commission announced that it had opened a formal noncompliance investigation against the Company under Article 5(4) of the EU DMA (Article 5(4) Investigation). The Article 5(4) Investigation relates to how developers may communicate and promote offers to end users for apps distributed through the App Store, as well as how developers may conclude contracts with those end users. On June 24, 2024, the Commission announced that it had opened an additional formal investigation against the Company regarding whether the Companys new contractual requirements for third-party app developers and app marketplaces may violate the DMA (Article 6(4) Investigation). On April 23, 2025, the Commission fined the Company 500 million in the Article 5(4) Investigation and issued a cease and desist order requiring the Company to remove technical and commercial restrictions that prevent developers from steering users to alternative distribution channels outside the App Store. The Company has appealed the Commissions Article 5(4) decision. Also on April 23, 2025, the Commission issued preliminary findings in the Article 6(4) Investigation. If the Commission makes a final determination in the Article 6(4) Investigation that there has been a violation, it can issue a cease and desist order and may impose fines up to 10% of the Companys annual worldwide net sales. The Commission may also seek to impose additional fines if it deems that the Company has violated a cease and desist order. The Company believes that it complies with the DMA and has continued to make changes to its compliance plan in response to feedback and engagement with the Commission. Department of Justice Lawsuit On March 21, 2024, the DOJ and a number of state and district attorneys general filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Company alleging monopolization or attempted monopolization in the markets for performance smartphones and smartphones in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. The DOJ is seeking equitable relief to redress the alleged anticompetitive behavior. In addition, various civil litigation matters have been filed in state and federal courts in the U.S. alleging similar violations of U.S. antitrust laws and seeking monetary damages and other nonmonetary relief. The Company believes it has substantial defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself. Epic Games Epic Games, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (California District Court) against the Company alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and Californias unfair competition law based upon the Companys operation of its App Store. The California District Court found that certain provisions of the Companys App Review Guidelines violate Californias unfair competition law and issued an injunction (the 2021 Injunction) enjoining the Company from prohibiting developers from including in their apps buttons, external links, or other calls to action that direct customers to purchasing mechanisms other than the Companys in-app purchase system. The 2021 Injunction applies to apps on the U.S. storefronts of the iOS and iPadOS App Stores. On January 16, 2024, the Company implemented a plan to comply with the 2021 Injunction and filed a statement of compliance with the California District Court. On September 30, 2024, the Company filed a motion with the California District Court to narrow or vacate the 2021 Injunction. On April 30, 2025, the California District Court found the Company to be in violation of the 2021 Injunction and enjoined the Company from imposing any commission or any fee on purchases that consumers make outside an app; restricting, conditioning, limiting, or prohibiting how developers guide consumers to purchases outside an app; or otherwise interfering with a consumers choice to proceed in or out of an app. The California District Court also denied the Companys motion to narrow or vacate the 2021 Injunction and referred the Company to the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California for a determination whether criminal contempt proceedings are appropriate. The Company will continue to vigorously defend its actions and employees, and has appealed the California District Courts most recent decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Ninth Circuit Court). Although the Companys request to stay the decision pending appeal was denied, the Ninth Circuit Court has agreed to consider the Companys appeal on an expedited basis, with oral arguments heard in October 2025. Other Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2025 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above managements expectations, the Companys financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Holders As of October 17, 2025, there were 22,429 shareholders of record. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September 27, 2025, was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per-share amounts): Periods Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) June 29, 2025 to August 2, 2025: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 33,265 $ 210.43 33,265 August 3, 2025 to August 30, 2025: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 28,986 $ 224.25 28,986 August 31, 2025 to September 27, 2025: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 27,247 $ 238.56 27,247 Total 89,498 $ 99,779 (1)On May 2, 2024, the Company announced a program to repurchase up to $110 billion of the Companys common stock. During the fourth quarter of 2025, the Company utilized the final $19.8 billion under the May 2024 program. On May 1, 2025, the Company announced an additional program to repurchase up to $100 billion of the Companys common stock. As of September 27, 2025, $221 million of the May 2025 program had been utilized. The programs do not obligate the Company to acquire a minimum amount of shares. Under the programs, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 19 Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of five-year cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Total Stock Market Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Total Stock Market Index as of the market close on September 25, 2020. Past stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. September 2020 September 2021 September 2022 September 2023 September 2024 September 2025 Apple Inc. $ 100 $ 132 $ 136 $ 155 $ 208 $ 234 S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 137 $ 115 $ 136 $ 185 $ 217 Dow Jones U.S. Technology Total Stock Market Index $ 100 $ 147 $ 107 $ 147 $ 220 $ 287 Item 6. [Reserved] Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 20 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This Item generally discusses 2025 and 2024 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2025 and 2024. Discussions of 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2024 and 2023 are not included, and can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2024. Product, Service and Software Announcements The Company announces new product, service and software offerings at various times during the year. Significant announcements during fiscal year 2025 included the following: First Quarter 2025: MacBook Pro Mac mini iMac iPad mini Second Quarter 2025: iPhone 16e iPad Air iPad MacBook Air Mac Studio Third Quarter 2025: iOS 26, macOS Tahoe 26, iPadOS 26, watchOS 26, visionOS 26 and tvOS 26 Fourth Quarter 2025: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max Apple Watch Series 11, Apple Watch SE 3 and Apple Watch Ultra 3 AirPods Pro 3 Fiscal Period The Companys fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter every five or six years to realign the Companys fiscal quarters with calendar quarters, which occurred in the first quarter of 2023. The Companys fiscal years 2025 and 2024 spanned 52 weeks each, whereas fiscal year 2023 spanned 53 weeks. Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, interest rates and currency fluctuations, have directly and indirectly impacted, and could in the future materially impact, the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 21 Tariffs and Other Measures Beginning in the second quarter of 2025, new U.S. Tariffs were announced, including additional tariffs on imports from China, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam and the EU, among others. In response, several countries have imposed, or threatened to impose, reciprocal tariffs on imports from the U.S. and other retaliatory measures. Various modifications to the U.S. Tariffs have been announced and further changes could be made in the future, which may include additional sector-based tariffs or other measures. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has initiated an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, into, among other things, imports of semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and their derivative products, including downstream products that contain semiconductors. Tariffs and other measures that are applied to the Companys products or their components can have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition, including impacting the Companys supply chain, the availability of rare earths and other raw materials and components, pricing and gross margin. The ultimate impact remains uncertain and will depend on several factors, including whether additional or incremental U.S. Tariffs or other measures are announced or imposed, to what extent other countries implement tariffs or other retaliatory measures in response, and the overall magnitude and duration of these measures. Trade and other international disputes can have an adverse impact on the overall macroeconomic environment and result in shifts and reductions in consumer spending and negative consumer sentiment for the Companys products and services, all of which can further adversely affect the Companys business and results of operations. Segment Operating Performance The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for 2025, 2024 and 2023 (dollars in millions): 2025 Change 2024 Change 2023 Americas $ 178,353 7 % $ 167,045 3 % $ 162,560 Europe 111,032 10 % 101,328 7 % 94,294 Greater China 64,377 (4) % 66,952 (8) % 72,559 Japan 28,703 15 % 25,052 3 % 24,257 Rest of Asia Pacific 33,696 10 % 30,658 4 % 29,615 Total net sales $ 416,161 6 % $ 391,035 2 % $ 383,285 Americas Americas net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable year-over-year impact on Americas net sales during 2025. Europe Europe net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of Services, iPhone and Mac. Greater China Greater China net sales decreased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to lower net sales of iPhone, partially offset by higher net sales of Mac. Japan Japan net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and iPad. Rest of Asia Pacific Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 22 Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales by category for 2025, 2024 and 2023 (dollars in millions): 2025 Change 2024 Change 2023 iPhone $ 209,586 4 % $ 201,183 % $ 200,583 Mac 33,708 12 % 29,984 2 % 29,357 iPad 28,023 5 % 26,694 (6) % 28,300 Wearables, Home and Accessories 35,686 (4) % 37,005 (7) % 39,845 Services (1) 109,158 14 % 96,169 13 % 85,200 Total net sales $ 416,161 6 % $ 391,035 2 % $ 383,285 (1)Services net sales include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 due to higher net sales of Pro models. Mac Mac net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of laptops and desktops. iPad iPad net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales of iPad Air, iPad mini and iPad, partially offset by lower net sales of iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales decreased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to lower net sales of Accessories and Wearables. Services Services net sales increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher net sales from advertising, the App Store and cloud services. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 23 Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2025, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2025 2024 2023 Gross margin: Products $ 112,887 $ 109,633 $ 108,803 Services 82,314 71,050 60,345 Total gross margin $ 195,201 $ 180,683 $ 169,148 Gross margin percentage: Products 36.8 % 37.2 % 36.5 % Services 75.4 % 73.9 % 70.8 % Total gross margin percentage 46.9 % 46.2 % 44.1 % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to favorable costs and a different mix of products, partially offset by tariff costs. Products gross margin percentage decreased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to a different mix of products and tariff costs, partially offset by other favorable costs. Services Gross Margin Services gross margin increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to higher Services net sales and a different mix of services. Services gross margin percentage increased during 2025 compared to 2024 primarily due to a different mix of services, partially offset by higher costs. The Companys future gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be subject to volatility and downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2025, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2025 Change 2024 Change 2023 Research and development $ 34,550 10 % $ 31,370 5 % $ 29,915 Percentage of total net sales 8 % 8 % 8 % Selling, general and administrative $ 27,601 6 % $ 26,097 5 % $ 24,932 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 7 % 7 % Total operating expenses $ 62,151 8 % $ 57,467 5 % $ 54,847 Percentage of total net sales 15 % 15 % 14 % Research and Development The growth in R&D expense during 2025 compared to 2024 was primarily driven by increases in headcount-related expenses and infrastructure-related costs. Selling, General and Administrative The growth in selling, general and administrative expense during 2025 compared to 2024 was primarily driven by increases in headcount-related expenses and variable selling expenses. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 24 Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for 2025, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2025 2024 2023 Provision for income taxes $ 20,719 $ 29,749 $ 16,741 Effective tax rate 15.6 % 24.1 % 14.7 % Statutory federal income tax rate 21 % 21 % 21 % The Companys effective tax rate for 2025 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings, including the impact of changes in unrecognized tax benefits, the impact of the U.S. federal R&D credit, and tax benefits from share-based compensation, partially offset by a change in valuation allowance and state income taxes. The Companys effective tax rate for 2025 was lower compared to 2024 due to a $10.7 billion year-over-year decrease in the provision for income taxes related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 7, Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) and the impact of changes in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by a change in valuation allowance and a higher effective tax rate on foreign earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes its balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which totaled $132.4 billion as of September 27, 2025, along with cash generated by ongoing operations and continued access to debt markets, will be sufficient to satisfy its cash requirements and capital return program over the next 12 months and beyond. The Companys material cash requirements include the following contractual obligations: Debt As of September 27, 2025, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $91.3 billion (collectively the Notes), with $12.4 billion payable within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with the Notes total $37.0 billion, with $2.6 billion payable within 12 months. The Company also issues unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a commercial paper program. As of September 27, 2025, the Company had $8.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding, which was payable within 12 months. Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center, manufacturing and retail space. As of September 27, 2025, the Company had fixed lease payment obligations of $16.8 billion, with $2.6 billion payable within 12 months. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture subassemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. As of September 27, 2025, the Company had manufacturing purchase obligations of $56.2 billion, with $55.4 billion payable within 12 months. Other Purchase Obligations The Companys other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including assets related to product manufacturing, and noncancelable obligations related to supplier arrangements, licensed intellectual property and content, and distribution rights. As of September 27, 2025, the Company had other purchase obligations of $14.8 billion, with $7.0 billion payable within 12 months. Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable As of September 27, 2025, the balance of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was $8.8 billion, which was payable within 12 months. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 25 Capital Return Program In addition to its contractual cash requirements, the Company has an authorized share repurchase program. The program does not obligate the Company to acquire a minimum amount of shares. As of September 27, 2025, the Companys quarterly cash dividend was $0.26 per share. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board. In May 2025, the Company announced a new share repurchase program of up to $100 billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $0.25 to $0.26 per share beginning in May 2025. During 2025, the Company repurchased $89.3 billion of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $15.4 billion. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Internal-Use Software In September 2025, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2025-06, IntangiblesGoodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Internal-Use Software (ASU 2025-06), which modernizes the accounting for internal-use software. ASU 2025-06 removes all references to software development stages and requires capitalization of software costs when management has committed to the software project and it is probable the software will be completed and perform its intended use. ASU 2025-06 will be effective for the Company in its first quarter of 2029, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the timing and method of its adoption of ASU 2025-06. Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU No. 2024-03, Income StatementReporting Comprehensive IncomeExpense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses (ASU 2024-03) and in January 2025, the FASB issued ASU No. 2025-01, Income StatementReporting Comprehensive IncomeExpense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Clarifying the Effective Date, which clarified the effective date of ASU 2024-03. ASU 2024-03 will require the Company to disclose the amounts of purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation and intangible asset amortization, as applicable, included in certain expense captions in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as qualitatively describe remaining amounts included in those captions. ASU 2024-03 will also require the Company to disclose both the amount and the Companys definition of selling expenses. The Company will adopt ASU 2024-03 in its fourth quarter of 2028 using a prospective transition method. Income Taxes In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09), which will require the Company to disclose specified additional information in its income tax rate reconciliation and provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. ASU 2023-09 will also require the Company to disaggregate its income taxes paid disclosure by federal, state and foreign taxes, with further disaggregation required for significant individual jurisdictions. The Company will adopt ASU 2023-09 in its fourth quarter of 2026 using a prospective transition method. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Uncertain Tax Positions The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation of the Companys uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment in the interpretation and application of GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws, including the TCJA and the allocation of international taxation rights between countries. Although management believes the Companys reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these uncertainties will not be different from that reflected in the Companys reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax examination. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 26 Legal and Other Contingencies The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, the outcomes of which are inherently uncertain. The Company records a liability when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant judgment. Resolution of legal matters in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results.