Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Income Taxes and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, Applied is regulated under various international laws regarding the purchase and sale of goods and related items, including but not limited to those related to imposition of tariffs and other taxes, requirements for import/export licenses and limitations on transfer of intellectual property. See Risk Factors Risks Associated with Operating a Global Business International trade disputes could result in increase in tariffs and other trade restrictions and protectionist measures that could have an adverse impact on our operations for further details. 11 Table of Contents Applieds People Applieds commitment to innovation begins with the commitment to creating an environment in which Applieds employees can do their best work. Applieds ability to create differentiated value in the marketplace is driven by the capability of the Companys people to anticipate technology inflections and integrate customer requirements. To achieve this level of value creation, Applied believes it must find, develop and keep a world-class global workforce. The Company invests in its employees by providing quality training and learning opportunities; promoting inclusion and diversity; and upholding a high standard of ethics and respect for human rights. As of October 25, 2020, Applied employed approximately 24,000 regular full-time employees, of whom approximately 44%, 43% and 13% resided in the Asia-Pacific region, North America, and Europe, Middle East and Africa, respectively. Applieds team spans 19 countries, reflecting various cultures, backgrounds, ages, gender identity, sexual orientation, and ethnicities. Diversity and Inclusion Applied knows that its diversity is one of its greatest strengths. The Company therefore strives to provide fair and equal opportunity for career development and advancement to all its employees and incorporates respect for diverse backgrounds and perspectives into the Companys culture at every level from strategy and policy down to everyday interactions. Applied expects that its commitment to strengthening the Companys culture of inclusion will broaden the diversity of its workplace and help Applied build a culture that benefits everyone. In recent years, Applied continued to make progress in its culture of inclusion journey, including, among other things, expanding gender diversity on the Companys Board to 30% female membership, increasing female representation in the U.S. and global workforce, and increasing U.S. underrepresented minority representation. Talent Acquisition and Retention Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon the Companys continued ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. As part of the Companys effort to attract and motivate employees, Applied offers competitive rewards, compensation and benefits, including an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, healthcare and retirement benefits, parental and family leave, adoption credits, holiday and paid time off, and tuition assistance. Employee Learning & Development Applied believes continuous learning by its people feeds the Companys pipeline of innovation and pays off in employee retention. Applieds business units maintain an independent strategy for skill-building, using content that is owned, supervised, developed, and managed by each units learning team. At the same time, these skill-building programs are aligned around a common set of objectives and framework focused on compliance, technical, professional and management development. For example, the Companys Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) and Sustainability organization leads employee training and awareness on EHS management issues and the certification processes for safety and skills related to technical manufacturing and engineering work. In addition, all employees have opportunities for training on a wide range of general professional skills that are designed to help them to be more effective in their current and future roles. There is an expectation that every employee has a development goal as a part of individual performance objectives. Historically more than 85% of employees have had development objectives. 12 Table of Contents Employee Engagement, Organizational Health and Pandemic Response Applied manages and measures organizational health with a view to gaining insight into employees experiences, levels of workplace satisfaction, and feelings of engagement and inclusion with the company. The Company uses McKinsey & Companys Organizational Health Index (OHI) and employee engagement pulse surveys to measure its organizational health and employee experiences. In fiscal 2019, Applied achieved an overall healthy rating on the OHI and continued to rank in the top quartile for overall health in the McKinsey database. Insights from the Companys OHI survey are used to develop both company-wide and business unit level organizational and talent development plans. Applieds top priority during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic remains protecting the health and safety of its employees and their families, customers and community. Applied continues to maintain workplace flexibility such as working remotely where possible to reduce the number of people who are on campus each day. Applied is keeping its critical labs and operations active consistent with local laws and regulations and continuing to support customers. In the interest of public health, all onsite operations are utilizing the minimum number of people to safely execute tasks and following enhanced safety and health protocolsincluding screenings, social distancing, and use of personal protective equipment. Additional information regarding Applieds activities related to its people and sustainability, as well as its workforce diversity data, can be found in Applieds latest Sustainability Report and Annex thereto, which are located on its website at https://www.appliedmaterials.com/news/citizenship_report.html. The Sustainability Report and the Annex thereto are updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applieds website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 13 Table of Contents Information about our Executive Officers The following table and notes set forth information about Applieds executive officers: Name of Individual Position Gary E. Dickerson(1) President, Chief Executive Officer Ginetto Addiego(2) Senior Vice President, Operations and Quality Daniel J. Durn(3) Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Teri Little(4) Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Omkaram Nalamasu(5) Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Prabu Raja(6) Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group Ali Salehpour(7) Senior Vice President, Services, Display and Flexible Technology Charles Read(8) Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (1) Mr. Dickerson, age 63, was named President of Applied in June 2012 and appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in September 2013. Before joining Applied, he served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) from 2004 until its acquisition by Applied in November 2011. Prior to Varian, Mr. Dickerson served 18 years with KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA-Tencor), a supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related industries, where he held a variety of operations and product development roles, including President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Dickerson started his semiconductor career in manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors Delco Electronics Division and then AT&T Technologies. (2) Dr. Addiego, age 61, has been Senior Vice President, Operations and Quality since June 2015. He served as Senior Vice President, Engineering from March 2014 to June 2019. He previously worked at Applied from 1996 to 2005, leading various product groups as well as global organizations, including Global Operations, Facilities and Real Estate, Foundation Engineering, and Information Technology. From March 2011 to March 2014, Dr. Addiego was President and Chief Operating Officer of Ultra Clean Technology Corp., a public company listed on Nasdaq and a supplier of critical subsystems for the semiconductor capital equipment, medical device, energy, research, and flat panel industries. From February 2005 to March 2011, Dr. Addiego worked at Novellus Systems, Inc., a provider of advanced process equipment for the semiconductor industry, where he served as Executive Vice President of Corporate Global Operations responsible for Central Engineering, Facilities, Real Estate, Human Resources and Information Technology, and as Chief Administrative Officer. (3) Mr. Durn, age 54, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Applied since August 2017. Previously, Mr. Durn was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NXP Semiconductors N.V., a semiconductor manufacturer (NXP), from December 2015 to August 2017. Mr. Durn served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., from June 2014 until its merger with NXP in December 2015. Prior to Freescale, Mr. Durn was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration at GlobalFoundries, a semiconductor foundry, which he joined in December 2011. (4) Ms. Little, age 56, joined Applied as Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in June 2020. Prior to joining Applied, Ms. Little served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary at KLA Corporation from August 2017 to June 2020. Prior to that she was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of KLA Corporation from October 2015 until August 2017, and prior to that she held various other positions at KLA Corporation since 2002. Prior to joining KLA Corporation, she was a Senior Corporate Associate at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, and a Litigation Associate at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe. (5) Dr. Nalamasu, age 62, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since June 2013, and President of Applied Ventures, LLC, Applieds venture capital arm, since November 2013. He had served as Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2012 to June 2013, and as Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2011 to January 2012. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 until January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was an Appointed Vice President of Research and served as Deputy Chief Technology Officer and General Manager for the Advanced Technologies Group. From 2002 to 2006, Dr. Nalamasu was a NYSTAR distinguished professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also served as Vice President of Research from 2005 to 2006. Prior to Rensselaer, Dr. Nalamasu served in several leadership roles at Bell Laboratories. (6) Dr. Raja, age 58, has been Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group of Applied since November 2017. He previously served in various senior management, product development and operational roles since joining Applied in 1995, including Group Vice President and General Manager of the Patterning and Packaging Group. 14 Table of Contents (7) Mr. Salehpour, age 59, has been Senior Vice President, Services, Display and Flexible Technology since September 2013. He previously served as Group Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display Business Groups, since joining Applied in November 2012. Prior to Applied, Mr. Salehpour worked at KLA-Tencor for 16 years, where he served as a Senior Vice President and General Manager, and worked for 10 years in senior management positions at Schlumberger Test Systems. (8) Mr. Read, age 54, has been Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Applied since joining the Company in September 2013. Prior to Applied, Mr. Read worked at Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., a provider of semiconductor and software-based network solutions, since October 2002, where he most recently served as Vice President, Corporate Controller. Prior to Brocade, Mr. Read worked at KPMG LLP, an audit, tax and advisory firm, from 1996 to 2002. Available Information Applieds website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SECs website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are intended to be an inactive textual references only. None of the information on, or accessible through, these websites is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and global measures taken in response thereto have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, Applieds operations and financial results. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response by governments and businesses worldwide to contain its spread, including quarantines, facility closures, travel and logistics restrictions, border controls, and shelter in place or stay at home and social distancing orders, have adversely impacted and are expected to continue to adversely impact Applieds supply chain, manufacturing, logistics, workforce and operations, as well as the operations of Applieds customers, suppliers and partners globally. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the duration, scope and severity of the pandemic and the impacts on our business and the global economy from the effects of the ongoing pandemic and response measures. While Applied continues to see progress in the recovery within its supply chain, travel and logistics restrictions, shelter-in-place orders and other measures, including working remotely, social distancing and other policies implemented in foreign and domestic sites to protect the health and safety of employees, have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, transportation disruptions (such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures), production delays and capacity limitations at Applied and some of its customers, suppliers and partners, as well as reduced workforce availability or productivity at Applied and customer sites, and additional data, information and cyber security risks associated with an extensive workforce now working remotely full-time. There can be no assurance that Applied or its suppliers will be able to maintain manufacturing operations at current levels. In addition, the pandemic and the impact of the foregoing measures in various forms and in varying degrees have had, and may continue to have a significant adverse impact on the global economic activity and could also result in a reduced demand for our products, delayed deliveries or installation, cancelled orders or increase in logistics and operating costs, and materially adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts Applieds financial condition and results of operations and the global economy will depend on future developments beyond our control, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, availability of effective vaccines against COVID-19, effectiveness of government stimulus programs, resurgence of COVID-19, how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating activity can resume, and the severity and duration of the global economic downturn that results from the pandemic. Risks Associated with Operating a Global Business Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Applied has product development, engineering, manufacturing, sales and other operations distributed throughout many countries, and some of its business activities are concentrated in certain geographic areas. Moreover, in fiscal 2020, approximately 90% of Applieds net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States. As a result of the global nature of its operations, Applieds business performance and results of operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: uncertain global economic and political business conditions and demands; political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; direct and indirect global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies (including the impact of the implementation and interpretation of the rules published by the U.S. Department of Commerce on April 28, 2020 and August 17, 2020 relating to certain export license requirements and the ability to obtain required import and export licenses), trade sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes; customer- or government-supported efforts to influence Applied to conduct more of its operations and sourcing in a particular country, such as Korea and China; variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations, including contract, intellectual property, cybersecurity, data privacy, labor, tax, and import/export laws, and the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; 16 Table of Contents ineffective or inadequate legal protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries; positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and/or security issues posed by international business operations; fluctuating raw material, commodity, energy and shipping costs; delays or restrictions in shipping materials or finished products between and within countries; geographically diverse operations and projects, and our ability to maintain appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and comply with environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements; supply chain interruptions, and service interruptions from utilities, transportation, data hosting or telecommunications providers, or other events beyond our control; failure to effectively manage a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, and differing employment practices and labor issues; variations in the ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, Israeli shekel, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Singapore dollar, Chinese yuan or Korean won; the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations around the world; performance of third party providers of outsourced functions, including certain engineering, software development, manufacturing, information technology and other activities; political instability, natural disasters, regional or global health epidemics, social unrest, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales, or that may influence the value chain of the industries that Applied serves; challenges in hiring and integration of an increasing number of workers in new countries; the increasing need for a mobile workforce to work in or travel to different regions; and uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries. As more fully discussed in the risk factor The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and global measures taken in response thereto have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, Applieds operations and financial results above, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response by governments and businesses worldwide to contain its spread, including quarantines, facility closures, travel and logistics restrictions, border controls, and shelter in place or stay at home and social distancing orders, have adversely impacted and are expected to continue to adversely impact Applieds supply chain, manufacturing, logistics, workforce and operations, as well as the operations of Applieds customers, suppliers and partners globally. 17 Table of Contents International trade disputes could result in increases in tariffs and other trade restrictions and protectionist measures that could adversely impact our operations and reduce the competitiveness of our products relative to local and global competitors. We sell a significant majority of our products into countries outside of the United States including China, Taiwan, Japan and Korea. We also purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside of the United States. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among China, Taiwan, Japan, Korea and the United States, that political, diplomatic and national security influences might lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions, in particular, with respect to those affecting the semiconductor industry. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose trade restrictions, and have also levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may increasingly impact end-user demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses, and our inability to obtain such licenses have limited and could further limit our markets and impact our business. For example, on April 28, 2020, the U.S. Department of Commerce published rules, which became effective on June 29, 2020, that expanded export license requirements for U.S. companies that sell certain products to entities in China whose actions or functions are intended to support military end uses, and eliminated certain export license exceptions that applied to exports of certain items to China. On September 25, 2020, the U.S. Department of Commerce designated a certain customer in China as a military end user. These trade restrictions and their interpretation by the U.S. Department of Commerce require us to apply for additional export licenses for certain of our products sold to certain customers in China, including products sold to customers that the U.S. Department of Commerce has determined to present a risk of diversion to a military end use. Obtaining export licenses may be difficult, costly and time-consuming, and our inability to obtain such licenses could limit our markets in China and adversely affect our results of operations. The implementation and interpretation of these rules are ongoing and their impact on our business is uncertain, and these rules and other regulatory changes that have occurred and may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, on August 17, 2020, the U.S. Department of Commerce published a final rule that does not impose additional license requirements for the export of Applieds products but could require certain of Applieds customers to obtain licenses for the export of wafers, chipsets and certain related items to Huawei or its affiliates that are the direct product of US-origin semiconductor manufacturing equipment and thus could potentially limit the demand for certain of Applieds products from such customers. In addition, government authorities may impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applieds business. Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent a significant portion of Applieds current business as well as long-term growth opportunities. Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy. Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates. Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products. Economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from purchasing for equipment or services, which may have an adverse impact on Applieds revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales, additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect Applieds ability to manage operations and deliver its products. These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applieds ability to compete effectively. In particular, impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in increased volatility in global financial markets, increases in levels of unemployment, and economic uncertainty, and may lead to significant negative impacts on customer spending, demand for our products, the ability of our customers to pay, our financial condition and the financial condition of our suppliers. 18 Table of Contents Uncertain economic and industry conditions also make it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. If Applied does not appropriately manage its business operations in response to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a significant negative impact on its business performance and financial condition. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applieds ability to capitalize on opportunities. Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Applied must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings. Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applieds investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate (including from impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applieds ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations. Risks Associated with Applieds Industry The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict. As a supplier to the global semiconductor and display and related industries, Applied is subject to variable industry conditions, since demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on several factors, including the nature and timing of technology inflections and advances in fabrication processes, the timing and requirements of new and emerging technologies and market drivers, production capacity relative to demand for chips and display technologies, end-user demand, customers capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, consumer buying patterns and general economic conditions. Applieds industries historically have been cyclical, and are subject to volatility and sudden changes in customer requirements for new manufacturing capacity and advanced technology. These changes can affect the timing and amounts of customer investments in technology and manufacturing equipment and can have a significant impact on Applieds net sales, operating expenses, gross margins and net income. The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on Applieds results of operations. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, including as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its effects, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, during periods of decreasing demand, Applieds gross margins and earnings may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated, and has become increasingly so as a result of continued consolidation. Applieds customer base is also geographically concentrated, particularly in China, Taiwan and Korea. A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applieds business. As a result, the actions of even a single customer can expose Applieds business and results of operations to greater volatility. The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, including as a result of changes in government policy, have varied and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and have a significant impact on Applieds net sales, gross margins and net income. Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, and changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders (including as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), Applied may not be able to replace the business, which may have a significant adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of Applieds customer base increases its risks related to the financial condition of its customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material adverse effect on Applieds results of operations and cash flow. To the extent its customers experience liquidity constraints, Applied may incur additional bad debt expense, which may have a significant impact on its results of operations. Major customers may also seek pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied, which may have a negative impact on Applieds business, cash flow, revenue and gross margins. 19 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, display and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds products and its consolidated results of operations, including: the nature, timing and degree of visibility of changes in end demand for electronic products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality or the introduction of new products, and the effects of these changes on customers businesses and on demand for Applieds products; increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and customers ability to raise the necessary capital; trade, regulatory or tax policies impacting the timing of customers investment in new or expanded fabrication plants; differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and other industries in which Applied operates; the increasing importance of establishing, improving and maintaining strong relationships with customers; the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the adoption rate of new manufacturing technology; the need for customers to continually reduce the total cost of manufacturing system ownership; the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use fabrication systems which can reduce demand for new equipment; the increasing importance of, and difficulties in, developing products with sufficient differentiation to influence customers purchasing decisions; requirements for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment; price and performance trends for semiconductor devices and displays, and the corresponding effect on demand for such products; the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to maximize the time that customers systems are available for production; the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied products; and the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest proportion of Applieds consolidated net sales and profitability is derived from sales of manufacturing equipment in the Semiconductor Systems segment to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds semiconductor manufacturing equipment and service products, including: the increasing frequency and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applieds ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the increasing cost of research and development due to many factors, including shrinking geometries, the use of new materials, new and more complex device structures, more applications and process steps, increasing chip design costs, and the increasing cost and complexity of integrated manufacturing processes; the need to reduce product development time, despite the increasing difficulty of technical challenges; the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and number of applications across multiple substrate sizes; the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and smaller geometries to volume manufacturing, and the resulting impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in capital equipment; challenges in generating organic growth given semiconductor manufacturers levels of capital expenditures and the allocation of capital investment to market segments that Applied does not serve, such as lithography, or segments where Applieds products have lower relative market presence; 20 Table of Contents the importance of increasing market positions in segments with growing demand; semiconductor manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use equipment, and the resulting effect on their need to purchase new equipment and services; shorter cycle times between order placements by customers and product shipment require greater reliance on forecasting of customer investment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin; competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance position, including challenges in securing development-tool-of-record (DTOR) and production-tool-of-record (PTOR) positions with customers; consolidation in the semiconductor industry, including among semiconductor manufacturers and among manufacturing equipment suppliers; shifts in sourcing strategies by computer and electronics companies, and manufacturing processes for advanced circuit technologies, that impact the equipment requirements of Applieds foundry customers; the concentration of new wafer starts in Korea and Taiwan, where Applieds service penetration and service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other regions; investment in semiconductor manufacturing capabilities in China, which may be affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental policies in China and the United States; the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products; and the growing importance of specialty markets (such as Internet of Things, communications, automotive, power and sensors) that use mature process technologies and have a low barrier to entry. If Applied does not accurately forecast and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry. The global display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, production capacity relative to end-use demand, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs, and on demand for advanced smartphones and mobile device displays, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applieds display products and services, including: the importance of new types of display technologies, such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED), low temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide transistor backplanes, flexible displays, and new touch panel films; the increasing cost of research and development, and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applieds ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the timing and extent of an expansion of manufacturing facilities in China, which may be affected by changes in local economic conditions and governmental policies in China, Korea, Japan and the United States; the importance of increasing market positions in products and technologies with growing demand; the rate of transition to larger substrate sizes for TVs and to new display technologies for TVs and mobile applications, and the resulting effect on capital intensity in the industry and on Applieds product differentiation, gross margin and return on investment; and fluctuations in customer spending quarter over quarter and year over year for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers. If Applied does not successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new and emerging display technologies, or if industry demand for display manufacturing equipment and technologies slows, Applieds business and its results of operations may be adversely impacted. 21 Table of Contents The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes. Applied operates in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, and its future success depends on many factors, including the development of new technologies and effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products, and its ability to increase its position in its current markets, expand into adjacent and new markets, and optimize operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in a geographically diverse and competitive environment, and that may require greater collaboration with customers and other industry participants, have grown more complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs, longer development cycles, lower profits and may have unforeseen product design or manufacturing defects. To compete successfully, Applied must: identify and address technology inflections, market changes, competitor innovations, new applications, customer requirements and end-use demand in a timely and effective manner; develop new products and disruptive technologies, improve and develop new applications for existing products, and adapt products for use by customers in different applications and markets with varying technical requirements; differentiate its products from those of competitors, meet customers performance specifications, appropriately price products, and achieve market acceptance; maintain operating flexibility to enable responses to changing markets, applications, customers and customer requirements; enhance its worldwide operations across its businesses to reduce cycle time, enable continuous quality improvement, reduce costs, and enhance design for manufacturability and serviceability; focus on product development and sales and marketing strategies that address customers high value problems and strengthen customer relationships; effectively allocate resources between its existing products and markets, the development of new products, and expanding into new and adjacent markets; improve the productivity of capital invested in R&D activities; accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet production schedules for its products; improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; qualify products for evaluation and volume manufacturing with its customers; and implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management. If Applied does not successfully anticipate technology inflections, develop and commercialize new products and technologies, and respond to changes in customer requirements and market trends, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Applieds Business, Finance and Operations Applied is exposed to risks associated with business combinations, acquisitions, strategic investments and divestitures. Applied engages in acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments, such as the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric, involve numerous risks to Applieds business, financial condition and operating results, including but not limited to: inability to complete proposed transactions timely or at all due to the failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals, litigation or other disputes, and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee (which, in the case of the stock purchase agreement related to the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric, Applied will be obligated to pay in the amount of $154 million if such agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals); diversion of managements attention and disruption of ongoing businesses; the failure to realize expected revenues, gross and operating margins, net income and other returns from acquired businesses; requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures and restrictions on the conduct of Applieds existing business or the acquired business; 22 Table of Contents following completion of acquisitions, ineffective integration of businesses, operations, systems, digital and physical security, technologies, products, employees, compliance programs, changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws, or other factors, may impact the ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits; failure to commercialize technologies from acquired businesses or developed through strategic investments; dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applieds existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions and customer relationships; failure to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses; the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; potential changes in Applieds credit rating, which could adversely impact the Companys access to and cost of capital; reductions in cash balances or increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which increase interest expense, and reductions in cash balances, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes, including share repurchases and dividends; exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where Applied has not historically conducted business; challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people; inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal financial controls, disclosure