Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, expects, believes, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 24, 2011 (the 2011 Form 10-K) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available on the Companys website at http:// www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone , iPad , Mac , iPod , Apple TV , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac OS X operating systems, iCloud , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative design. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. As part of the iTunes Store, the Companys App Store and iBookstore allow customers to discover and download applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through iOS devices, namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. In January 2011, the Company opened the Mac App Store to allow customers to easily discover, download and install Mac applications. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. The Companys strategy also includes expanding its distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. 20 The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including mobile communications and media devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; personal computers with its Mac computers; and distribution of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the markets where it competes, these markets are highly competitive and subject to aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that continual investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products and technologies. The Companys research and development spending is focused on investing in new hardware and software products, and in further developing its existing products, including iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod hardware; iOS and Mac OS X operating systems; and a variety of application software and online services. The Company uses a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels, such as its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of integration and support services, and product expertise. Products The Company offers a range of mobile communication and media devices, personal computing products, and portable digital music players, as well as a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and various third-party hardware and software products. In addition, the Company offers its own software products, including iOS, the Companys proprietary mobile operating system; Mac OS X, the Companys proprietary operating system software for its Mac computers; server software; and application software for consumer, education, and business customers. A detailed discussion of the Companys other products may be found in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2011 Form 10-K. Thailand Flooding In recent months several regions of Thailand have experienced severe flooding, causing damage to infrastructure, housing and factories. A number of the Companys suppliers are located in Thailand. To the extent that component production has been affected, the Company will work to obtain alternative sources of supply or implement other measures. Based on its current assessment of the situation, the Company does not believe this event will have a material impact on its operations in the second quarter of 2012; however, because the situation in Thailand is still evolving uncertainty remains regarding the ultimate impact of this event on the Company. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys 2011 Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. 21 Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of marketable securities, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products, software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware, and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential to the hardware products functionality, undelivered software elements that relate to the hardware products essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For sales of iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, for sales of iPod touch beginning in June 2010, and for sales of Mac beginning in June 2011, the Company has indicated it may from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. In June 2011, the Company announced it would begin providing various non-software services to owners of qualifying versions of iOS devices and Mac. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these unspecified software upgrade rights or the non-software services, revenue is allocated to these rights and services based on the Companys ESPs. Amounts allocated to the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives of each of these devices, which range from 24 to 48 months. The Companys process for determining ESPs involves managements judgment. The Companys process considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. If the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change, including the estimated or actual costs incurred to provide non-software services or the estimated lives of the related devices, or should future facts and circumstances lead the Company to consider additional factors, the Companys ESP for software upgrades and non-software services related to future sales of these devices could change. If the estimated life of one or more of the devices should change, the future rate of amortization of the revenue allocated to the software upgrade rights would also change. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product 22 or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Companys Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities impact the Companys net income only when such securities are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell, the security before recovery of the its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired, could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The industries in which the Company competes are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods up to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. 23 Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part II, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 24 Fiscal Period The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Companys fiscal year 2012 will include 53-weeks and will end on September 29, 2012. A 14th week has been included in the first quarter of 2012, as is done approximately every six years to realign the Companys fiscal quarters more closely to calendar quarters. Inclusion of the 14th week increased the Companys overall net sales and operating expenses for the first quarter of 2012. The first quarter of 2011 spanned 13 weeks. Net Sales The following table summarizes net sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during the three months ended December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 (in millions, except unit sales in thousands): September 30, September 30, September 30, Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 December 25, 2010 Change Net Sales by Operating Segment : Americas net sales $ 17,714 $ 9,218 92% Europe net sales 11,256 7,256 55% Japan net sales 3,550 1,433 148% Asia-Pacific net sales 7,697 4,987 54% Retail net sales 6,116 3,847 59% Total net sales $ 46,333 $ 26,741 73% Net Sales by Product : Mac Desktops (a)(i) $ 1,936 $ 1,731 12% Mac Portables (b)(i) 4,662 3,699 26% Total Mac net sales 6,598 5,430 22% iPod (c)(i) 2,528 3,425 (26%) Other music related products and services (d) 2,027 1,431 42% iPhone and related products and services (e)(i) 24,417 10,468 133% iPad and related products and services (f)(i) 9,153 4,608 99% Peripherals and other hardware (g) 766 593 29% Software, service and other sales (h) 844 786 7% Total net sales $ 46,333 $ 26,741 73% Unit Sales by Product : Mac Desktops 1,479 1,227 21% Mac Portables 3,719 2,907 28% Total Mac unit sales 5,198 4,134 26% iPod unit sales 15,397 19,446 (21%) iPhone unit sales 37,044 16,235 128% iPad unit sales 15,434 7,331 111% (a) Includes revenue from iMac, Mac mini and Mac Pro sales. (b) Includes revenue from MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro sales. (c) Includes revenue from iPod sales. (d) Includes revenue from sales from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore in addition to sales of iPod services and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. (e) Includes revenue from sales of iPhone, iPhone services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. (f) Includes revenue from sales of iPad, iPad services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. (g) Includes revenue from sales of displays, networking products, and other hardware. (h) Includes revenue from sales of Apple-branded and third-party Mac software, and services. (i) Includes amortization of related revenue deferred for non-software services and embedded software upgrade rights. 25 Net sales during the first quarter of 2012 increased $19.6 billion or 73% compared to the same quarter in 2011. Several factors contributed positively to this increase, including the addition of the 14th week in the first quarter of 2012 as well as the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $24.4 billion in the first quarter of 2012 representing an increase of $13.9 billion or 133% compared to the first quarter of 2011. iPhone unit sales totaled 37 million in the first quarter of 2012, which represents an increase of 20.8 million units or 128% compared to the same period in 2011. iPhone year-over-year growth reflects strong demand for iPhone in all of the Companys operating segments primarily due to the launch of iPhone 4S in many countries and expanded distribution with new carriers and resellers. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services accounted for 53% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2012 compared to 39% in the first quarter of 2011. Net sales of iPad and related products and services were $9.2 billion in the first quarter of 2012 representing an increase of $4.5 billion or 99% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Unit sales of iPad were 15.4 million during the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 111% compared to the same period in 2011. The year-over-year increase in net sales and unit sales were driven by strong iPad demand in all of the Companys operating segments and expanded distribution with resellers and new carriers. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales of iPad and related products and services accounted for 20% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2012 compared to 17% in the first quarter of 2011. Mac net sales were $6.6 billion in the first quarter of 2012 representing an increase of $1.2 billion or 22% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Mac unit sales increased by 1.1 million or 26% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. During the first quarter of 2012, net sales and unit sales of Mac portable systems increased by 26% and 28%, respectively, primarily attributable to strong demand for MacBook Pro and MacBook Air. Net sales and unit sales of Mac desktop systems increased by 12% and 21%, respectively, primarily attributable to strong demand for iMac and Mac mini. Mac net sales accounted for 14% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 20% in the first quarter of 2011. Net sales of other music related products and services were $2.0 billion in the first quarter of 2012 representing an increase of $596 million or 42% compared to the first quarter of 2011. This increase was due primarily to growth of the iTunes Store which generated total net sales of $1.7 billion for the first quarter of 2012. The results of the iTunes Store reflect growth of the iTunes App Store, continued growth in the installed base of iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, and the expansion of third-party audio, video and book content available for sale or rent via the iTunes Store. The Company continues to expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Net sales of other music related products and services accounted for 4% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2012 compared to 5% in the first quarter of 2011. Partially offsetting the positive factors contributing to the overall increase in net sales was a decrease in iPod net sales of $897 million or 26% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Unit sales of iPod decreased by 21% during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. Net sales of iPods accounted for 5% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2012 compared to 13% in the first quarter of 2011. 26 Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable operating segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The results of the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments do not include the results of the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores in 11 countries. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 7, Segment Information and Geographic Data in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Americas During the first quarter of 2012, net sales in the Americas increased $8.5 billion or 92% compared to the first quarter of 2011. This increase in net sales was driven by the launch of iPhone 4S and the expanded distribution of iPhone with new carriers, strong demand for iPad and higher sales from the iTunes store, partially offset by decreased sales of iPod. The Americas segment represented 38% and 35% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Europe During the first quarter of 2012, net sales in Europe increased $4.0 billion or 55% compared to the first quarter of 2011. The growth in net sales was due mainly to the launch of iPhone 4S and increased sales of iPad and Mac. The Europe segment represented 24% and 27% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Japan During the first quarter of 2012, net sales in Japan increased $2.1 billion or 148% compared to the first quarter in 2011. The growth in net sales was mainly due to the launch of iPhone 4S, expanded distribution with a new iPhone carrier, increased sales of iPad, and to lesser extent strength in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Partially offsetting the net sales increase was a decline in net sales of iPod. The Japan segment represented 8% and 5% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Asia-Pacific Net sales in Asia-Pacific increased $2.7 billion during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011. This increase was primarily due to strong demand for iPhone, iPad and Mac. Although net sales in Asia-Pacific grew 54%, the growth rate was lower than the Companys overall net sales growth of 73% primarily because iPhone 4S was launched later in most countries in the Asia-Pacific segment than it was in countries in other operating segments. The Company began selling iPhone 4S in Mainland China in the second quarter of 2012. The Asia-Pacific segment represented 17% and 19% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Retail Retail net sales increased $2.3 billion or 59% during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011. The increase in net sales was driven primarily by the launch of iPhone 4S and higher sales of iPad and Mac. The Company opened four new retail stores during the first quarter of 2012, three of which were international stores, ending the quarter with 361 stores open compared to 323 stores at the end of the first quarter of 2011. With an average of 358 stores and 321 stores opened during the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $17.1 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $12.0 million in the first quarter of 2011. The Retail segment represented 13% and 14% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Retail segment reported operating income of $1.9 billion during the first quarter of 2012 as compared to $1.0 billion during the first quarter of 2011. The year-over-year increase in Retail operating income during the first quarter of 2012 was primarily attributable to higher overall net sales. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled approximately $3.0 billion through the first quarter of 2012. 27 As of December 31, 2011, the Retail segment had approximately 41,800 full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities of $2.6 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores, and such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 was as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): September 30, September 30, Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 December 25, 2010 Net sales $ 46,333 $ 26,741 Cost of sales 25,630 16,443 Gross margin $ 20,703 $ 10,298 Gross margin percentage 44.7% 38.5% The gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2012 was 44.7% compared to 38.5% in the first quarter of 2011. The year-over-year increase in gross margin was largely driven by a more favorable sales mix towards products with higher gross margins, particularly iPhone, and to a lesser extent lower commodity and other product costs and leverage on fixed costs of higher net sales. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during the first quarter of 2012, largely due to a higher mix of new and innovative products with flat or reduced pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers and a stronger U.S. dollar, and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors including, but not limited to certain of those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subheading Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities , which is incorporated herein by reference. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and potential increases in the cost of components, as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short-term by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, were as follows (in millions, except for percentages): September 30, September 30, Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 December 25, 2010 Research and development $ 758 $ 575 Percentage of net sales 1.6% 2.2% Selling, general and administrative $ 2,605 $ 1,896 Percentage of net sales 5.6% 7.1% 28 Research and Development Expense (R&D) R&D expense increased 32% or $183 million to $758 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $575 million in the first quarter of 2011. This increase was due primarily to an increase in headcount and related expenses to support expanded R&D activities. Although total R&D expense increased 32% during the first quarter of 2012, it declined as a percentage of net sales, due to the 73% year-over-year increase in net sales. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to make further investments in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A) SG&A expense increased $709 million or 37% to $2.6 billion in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2011. The year-over-year increase in SG&A expense was due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment, increased headcount and related costs, higher spending on professional services, marketing and advertising programs, and increased variable costs associated with the overall growth of the Companys net sales. Other Income and Expense Total other income and expense remained relatively flat during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011. The Company realized higher interest and dividend income as a result of higher yields and higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances largely offset by higher premium expenses on foreign exchange option contracts during the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 1.02% and 0.75% in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2012 was approximately 25.3% compared with approximately 24.6% for the first quarter of 2011. The Companys effective rate for both periods differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The higher effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the same quarter of 2011 is due primarily to a lower proportion of foreign earnings in the current year and the recognition of a tax benefit in the first quarter of 2011 as a result of legislation enacted retroactively reinstating the research and development tax credit. The Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2004 through 2006 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS is currently examining the years 2007 through 2009. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2004 have been resolved. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of December 31, 2011 and September 24, 2011 (in millions): September 30, 2009 September 30, 2009 December 31, 2011 September 24, 2011 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 97,601 $ 81,570 Accounts receivable, net $ 8,930 $ 5,369 Inventory $ 1,236 $ 776 Working capital $ 20,164 $ 17,018 29 As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $97.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $16.0 billion from September 24, 2011. The principal component of this net increase was the cash generated by operating activities of $17.6 billion, which was partially offset by payments made for acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of $1.4 billion. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Companys investment policy requires investments to generally be investment grade with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. As of December 31, 2011 and September 24, 2011, $64.0 billion and $54.3 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $597 million during the first quarter of 2012 consisting of approximately $152 million for retail store facilities and $445 million for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Companys actual cash payments for capital expenditures during the first quarter of 2012 were $1.3 billion, of which $182 million relates to retail store facilities. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $8.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2012, including approximately $900 million for retail store facilities and approximately $7.1 billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. During 2012, the Company expects to open about 40 new stores, approximately three quarters of which will be located outside of the U.S. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to the Company. Lease Commitments The Companys major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding 10 years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $3.3 billion, of which $2.6 billion related to leases for retail space. Purchase Commitments with Outsourcing Partners and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of $13.4 billion. 30 Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2011, and were comprised mainly of commitments under long-term supply agreements to make additional inventory component prepayments and to acquire capital equipment, commitments to acquire product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related to advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Companys other non-current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily of deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $9.7 billion. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.5 billion and an additional $270 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss with respect to indemnification of end-users of its operating system or application software for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record a liability for infringement costs related to indemnification as of December 31, 2011 or September 24, 2011. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material.