Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, expects, believes, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 26, 2009, as amended (the 2009 Form 10-K) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available on the Companys website at http://www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Principles In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards related to revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables and arrangements that include software elements (new accounting principles). The Company adopted the new accounting principles on a retrospective basis during the first quarter of 2010. Under the historical accounting principles, the Company was required to account for sales of both iPhone and Apple TV using subscription accounting because the Company indicated it might from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features for those products free of charge. Under subscription accounting, revenue and associated product cost of sales for iPhone and Apple TV were deferred at the time of sale and recognized on a straight-line basis over each products estimated economic life. This resulted in the deferral of significant amounts of revenue and cost of sales related to iPhone and Apple TV. The new accounting principles impact the Companys accounting for all past and current sales of iPhone, iPad, Apple TV and for sales of iPod touch beginning in June 2010. The new accounting principles require the Company to account for the sale of these devices as two deliverables. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the right included with the purchase of these devices to receive on a when-and-if-available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating to the products essential software. The new accounting principles result in the recognition of a substantial portion of the revenue and all product costs from the sale of these devices at the time of their sale. Additionally, the Company is required to estimate a standalone selling price for the unspecified software upgrade rights included with the sale of these devices and recognizes that amount ratably over the 24-month estimated life of the related hardware device. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under the subheadings Basis of Presentation and Preparation and Revenue Recognition of this Form 10-Q provides additional information on the Companys 28 change in accounting resulting from the adoption of the new accounting principles and the Companys revenue recognition accounting policy. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets a range of personal computers, mobile communication and consumer electronics devices, and portable digital music and video players and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include the Mac line of desktop and portable computers, iPhone , iPad, the iPod line of portable digital music and video players, Apple TV , Xserve , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the Mac OS X operating system, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, cellular network carriers, and third-party wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Mac, iPhone, iPad and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumer, small and mid-sized business (SMB), education, enterprise, government, and creative markets. A further description of the Companys products may be found below under the heading Products and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2009 Form 10-K. The Company is focused on providing innovative products and solutions to consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative customers that greatly enhance their evolving digital lifestyles and work environments. The Companys overall business strategy is to control the design and development of the hardware and software for all of its products, including personal computers, mobile communications and consumer electronics devices. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment in research and development is critical to the development and enhancement of innovative products and technologies. In conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues to build and host a robust platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. The Companys App Store and iBookstore allow customers to browse, search for, and purchase third-party applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or by wirelessly downloading directly to an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. The Company also desires to support a community for the development of third-party products that complement the Companys offerings through its developer programs. The Company is therefore uniquely positioned to offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac line of personal computers; mobile communications and consumer electronics devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; and through distribution of third-party digital content and applications with its online iTunes Store. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics markets as well as a leader in the market for distribution of digital content and applications, these markets are highly competitive and subject to aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is necessary to maintain or expand its position in the markets where it competes. The Companys research and development spending is focused on further developing its existing Mac line of personal computers; the Mac OS X and iOS operating systems; application software for the Mac; iPhone, iPad and iPod and related software; development of new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing in new product areas and technologies. The Company also believes increased investment in marketing and advertising programs is critical to increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available on its products, and demonstrate the compatibility of the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and 29 education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by opening its own retail stores in the U.S. and in international markets. The Company had 293 stores open as of June 26, 2010. The Company also sells to customers directly through its online stores around the world and through its direct sales force. The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors at selected third-party reseller locations, and the Apple Premium Reseller Program, through which independently run businesses focus on the Apple platform and provide a high level of customer service and product expertise. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an efficient way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors. Additionally, the Company has signed multi-year agreements with various cellular network carriers authorizing them to distribute and provide cellular network services for iPhones. These agreements are generally not exclusive with a specific carrier, except in the U.S., Germany and certain other countries. The Companys iPods are also sold through a significant number of distribution points, including certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, and large retail chains and specialty retail stores. Product Updates In June 2010, the Company introduced the new iPhone 4, featuring an all-new design, FaceTime video calling, a new high resolution Retina display, a 5 megapixel camera with LED flash and front facing camera, high definition video recording, Apples A4 processor and a 3-axis gyroscope. iPhone 4 comes with iOS 4, the newest version of the Companys mobile operating system, and is available in 16GB and 32GB models. iPhone 4 first became available in the U.S., France, Germany, Japan and the U.K. on June 24, 2010 and is expected to be made available in other countries in the fourth quarter of 2010. In June 2010, the Company launched iOS 4, which includes new features such as Multitasking that allows customers to move between applications, Folders to organize and easily access applications, a unified Mail inbox, support for the iAd mobile advertising platform, and the iBooks reader and iBookstore. iOS 4 became available for iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, and second and third generation iPod touch in June 2010, and is expected to be available for iPad in the fall of 2010. Certain features of the iOS 4 software will not function on certain earlier iPhone and iPod touch models. In June 2010, the Company announced its iAd mobile advertising network that was launched on July 1, 2010 on iPhone and iPod touch devices running its iOS 4 software. iAd combines the appearance of TV advertising with the interactivity of Internet advertising and will allow mobile device customers to engage with an ad without being removed from the applications they are currently using. In January 2010, the Company introduced iPad, a multi-purpose mobile device for browsing the web, reading and sending email, viewing photos, watching videos, listening to music, playing games, reading e-books and more. iPad is based on the Companys Multi-Touch technology, has a 9.7-inch LED-backlit display, is 0.5 inches thick and weighs 1.5 pounds. iPad is available in two models, one with Wi-Fi connectivity and the other with both Wi-Fi and 3G connectivity. Both versions of iPad became available in the U.S. in April 2010 and in nine additional countries in May 2010. A detailed discussion of the Companys other products may be found in Part I, Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of the Companys 2010 Form 10-Qs and in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2009 Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys 2009 Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience 30 and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation of marketable securities, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products (e.g., Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods and peripherals), software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware, and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include tangible products containing software essential to the tangible products functionality and undelivered software elements relating to the tangible products essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the new accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For all past and current sales of iPhone, iPad, Apple TV and for sales of iPod touch beginning in June 2010, the Company indicated it might from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. The Company has identified two deliverables in arrangements involving the sale of these devices. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale. The second deliverable is the right included with the purchase of iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple TV to receive on a when-and-if-available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating to the products essential software. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the two deliverables, the allocation of revenue has been based on the Companys ESPs. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the unspecified software upgrade right are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 24-month estimated life of each of these devices. All product cost of sales, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized at the time of sale. Costs for engineering and sales and marketing are expensed as incurred. If the estimated life of the hardware product should change, the future rate of amortization of the revenue allocated to the software upgrade right will also change. The Companys process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE or TPE involves managements judgment. The Companys process considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and 31 circumstances related to each deliverable. The Company believes its customers, particularly consumers, would be reluctant to buy unspecified software upgrade rights related to iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple TV. This view is primarily based on the fact that upgrade rights do not obligate the Company to provide upgrades at a particular time or at all, and do not specify to customers which upgrades or features will be delivered. Therefore, the Company has concluded if it were to sell upgrade rights on a standalone basis, including those rights associated with iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple TV, the selling price would be relatively low. Key factors considered by the Company in developing the ESPs for these upgrade rights include prices charged by the Company for similar offerings, the Companys historical pricing practices, the nature of the upgrade rights (e.g., unspecified and when-and-if-available), and the relative ESP of the upgrade rights as compared to the total selling price of the product. The Company may also consider, when appropriate, the impact of other products and services, including advertising services, on selling price assumptions when developing and reviewing its ESPs for software upgrade rights and related deliverables. The Company may also consider additional factors as appropriate, including the pricing of competitive alternatives if they exist, and product-specific business objectives. If the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change or should future facts and circumstances lead the Company to consider additional factors, the Companys ESP for software upgrades related to future sales for these devices could change in future periods. Beginning in the third quarter of 2010 in conjunction with the announcement of iOS 4, the Companys ESPs for the software upgrade rights included with iPhone, iPad and iPod touch reflect the positive financial impact expected by the Company as a result of its planned implementation of a mobile advertising platform for these devices and the expectation of customers regarding software that includes or supports an advertising component. iOS 4 supports iAd, the Companys new mobile advertising platform, which will enable applications on iPhone, iPad and iPod touch to feature media-rich advertisements within applications. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of investments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, as reported in the Companys Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of investments impact the Companys net income only when such investments are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell, the investment before recovery of the investments amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired or not, could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular investment. 32 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors, cellular network carriers, and resellers and directly to certain education, consumer, and enterprise customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral in certain instances to limit credit risk. In addition, when possible the Company does attempt to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers in Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, or by requiring third-party financing, loans or leases to support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. As such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse or credit-risk-sharing related to any of these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral, third-party financing arrangements, or credit insurance are outstanding with the Companys distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on managements assessment of the ability to collect specific customer accounts and includes consideration of the credit-worthiness and financial condition of those specific customers. The Company records an allowance to reduce the specific receivables to the amount that it reasonably believes to be collectible. The Company also records an allowance for all other trade receivables based on multiple factors, including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition of the Companys distribution channels, and the aging of such receivables. If there is a deterioration of a major customers financial condition, if the Company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit-worthiness of a major customer, or if future actual default rates on trade receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have to adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect its results of operations in the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics industries are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. The Company periodically provides updates to its applications and operating system software to maintain the softwares compliance with specifications. The estimated cost to develop such updates is accounted for as warranty 33 cost that is recognized at the time related software revenue is recognized. Factors considered in determining appropriate accruals related to such updates include the number of units delivered, the number of updates expected to occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost of the resources necessary to develop these updates. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. In accordance with GAAP, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes and measures uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, whereby the Company only recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part II, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. In accordance with GAAP, the Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In managements opinion, the Company does not have a potential liability related to any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of these legal matters or should several of these legal matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 34 Net Sales The following table summarizes net sales and Mac unit sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 and June 27, 2009 (in millions, except unit sales in thousands and per unit amounts): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 Change June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 Change Net Sales by Operating Segment : Americas net sales $ 6,227 $ 4,474 39% $ 17,312 $ 13,745 26% Europe net sales 4,160 2,505 66% 13,234 8,575 54% Japan net sales 910 560 63% 2,580 1,645 57% Asia-Pacific net sales 1,825 703 160% 5,524 2,118 161% Retail net sales 2,578 1,492 73% 6,232 4,615 35% Total net sales $ 15,700 $ 9,734 61% $ 44,882 $ 30,698 46% Unit Sales by Operating Segment : Americas Mac unit sales 1,358 1,147 18% 3,516 2,868 23% Europe Mac unit sales 914 626 46% 2,881 2,079 39% Japan Mac unit sales 129 108 19% 363 316 15% Asia-Pacific Mac unit sales 394 230 71% 1,045 635 65% Retail Mac unit sales 677 492 38% 1,972 1,445 36% Total Mac unit sales 3,472 2,603 33% 9,777 7,343 33% Net Sales by Product : Desktops (a) $ 1,301 $ 1,134 15% $ 4,525 $ 3,235 40% Portables (b) 3,098 2,220 40% 8,084 6,644 22% Total Mac net sales 4,399 3,354 31% 12,609 9,879 28% iPod 1,545 1,492 4% 6,797 6,528 4% Other music related products and services (c) 1,214 958 27% 3,705 3,018 23% iPhone and related products and services (d) 5,334 3,060 74% 16,357 8,427 94% iPad and related products and services (e) 2,166 0 N/M 2,166 0 N/M Peripherals and other hardware (f) 396 340 16% 1,337 1,084 23% Software, service and other sales (g) 646 530 22% 1,911 1,762 8% Total net sales $ 15,700 $ 9,734 61% $ 44,882 $ 30,698 46% Unit Sales by Product : Desktops (a) 1,004 849 18% 3,385 2,395 41% Portables (b) 2,468 1,754 41% 6,392 4,948 29% Total Mac unit sales 3,472 2,603 33% 9,777 7,343 33% Net sales per Mac unit sold (h) $ 1,267 $ 1,289 (2% ) $ 1,290 $ 1,345 (4% ) iPod unit sales 9,406 10,215 (8% ) 41,261 43,955 (6% ) Net sales per iPod unit sold (h) $ 164 $ 146 12% $ 165 $ 149 11% iPhone unit sales 8,398 5,208 61% 25,887 13,364 94% iPad unit sales 3,270 0 N/M 3,270 0 N/M 35 (a) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. (b) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. (c) Includes iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. (d) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. (e) Includes iPad sales and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. (f) Includes sales of displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. (g) Includes sales of Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. (h) Derived by dividing total product-related net sales by total product-related unit sales. N/M = Not meaningful. Net sales during the third quarter of 2010 and the first nine months of 2010 increased $6.0 billion or 61%, and $14.2 billion or 46%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. Several factors contributed positively to this increase, including the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $5.3 billion and $16.4 billion in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, representing an increase of 74% and 94%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services accounted for 34% and 36% of the Companys total net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively. iPhone unit sales totaled 8.4 million and 25.9 million during the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, and increased 61% and 94% during the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. iPhone year-over-year growth was attributed primarily to expanded distribution with new international carriers and resellers, continued growth across existing carriers, and strong overall demand for iPhones, especially in international markets. iPhone revenue includes handset revenue recognized and revenue from sales of iPhone accessories and carrier agreements. Net sales of iPad and related products and services were $2.2 billion and unit sales of iPad were 3.3 million during the third quarter of 2010. iPad was launched in the U.S. on April 3, 2010 and expanded to Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the U.K. on May 28, 2010. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain of its cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales of iPad and related products and services accounted for 14% and 5% of the Companys total net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively. Mac net sales increased by $1.0 billion or 31% and $2.7 billion or 28% in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. Mac unit sales increased by 33% in both the third quarter and first nine months of 2010 compared to the same periods in 2009. Net sales of the Companys Macs accounted for 28% of the Companys total net sales in both the third quarter and first nine months of 2010. During the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, net sales of the Companys Mac portable systems increased by 40% and 22%, respectively, primarily attributable to strong sales growth in MacBook and MacBook Pro. Net sales of the Companys Mac desktop systems increased by 15% and 40% in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, driven by strong demand for iMac which was updated in October 2009. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $256 million or 27% during the third quarter of 2010 and increased $687 million or 23% during the first nine months of 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009. These increases were due primarily to increased net sales from the iTunes Store. During the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, the iTunes store reported net sales of $1.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. The Company believes this continued growth is the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading third-party digital content and applications, continued growth in its customer base of iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, the expansion of third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store, and the continued interest in and growth of the iTunes App Store. The Company continues to expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the 36 world. Net sales of other music related products and services accounted for 8% of the Companys total net sales for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2010. Net sales of iPods increased $53 million or 4% during the third quarter of 2010, while iPod unit sales declined by 8% during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same periods in 2009. During the first nine months of 2010, net sales of iPods increased $269 million or 4%, while iPod unit sales decreased by 6% compared to the same period in 2009. Net sales per iPod unit sold increased by 12% and 11% in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. The increase in net sales per iPod unit sold was driven primarily by a shift in product mix toward iPod touch, which had strong growth in each of the Companys reportable geographic segments. Net sales of iPods accounted for 10% and 15% of the Companys total net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys operating and reporting segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments do not include activities related to the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores in the U.S. and in international markets. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services to the same types of customers. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 8, Segment Information and Geographic Data in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Americas Net sales in the Americas during the third quarter of 2010 increased $1.8 billion or 39% compared to the third quarter of 2009. This increase in net sales was attributable to strong demand for iPad, increased iPhone revenue primarily attributable to carrier expansion and continued growth across existing carriers, strong sales of Mac portable systems, and higher sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. Americas Mac net sales and unit sales increased 19% and 18%, respectively, during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009, primarily due to strong demand for Mac portable systems. The Americas segment represented 40% and 46% of the Companys total net sales in the third quarters of 2010 and 2009, respectively. During the first nine months of 2010, net sales in the Americas segment increased $3.6 billion or 26% compared to the same period in 2009. The primary contributors to this net sales growth were a significant year-over-year increase in iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, higher sales of Macs, and increased sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. The Americas segment represented approximately 39% and 45% of the Companys total net sales for the first nine months of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Europe Net sales in Europe increased $1.7 billion or 66% during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009. The growth in net sales was due mainly to the significant increase in iPhone revenue primarily attributable to country and carrier expansion and continued growth across existing carriers, continued demand for Mac desktop and portable systems and strong demand for iPad, partially offset by a stronger U.S. dollar. Europe Mac net sales and unit sales increased 43% and 46%, respectively, during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. The Europe segment represented 26% of the Companys total net sales for both the third quarters of both 2010 and 2009. For the first nine months of 2010, net sales in Europe increased $4.7 billion or 54% compared to the same period in 2009. Similar to the growth in net sales during the third quarter of 2010, the increase in net sales during the first nine months of 2010 was attributable primarily to the significant year-over-year increase in iPhone revenue, higher sales of Mac desktop and portable systems, and strong demand for iPad. Strong sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store also contributed to higher net sales during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. The Europe segment represented 29% and 28% of the Companys total net sales for the first nine months in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 37 Japan Japans net sales increased $350 million or 63% during the third quarter of 2010 and increased $935 million or 57% during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same periods in 2009. The key contributors to Japans net sales growth for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2010 were increased iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad and strength in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Japan Mac net sales and unit sales grew by 12% and 19%, respectively, during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. Japan Mac unit sales increased by 15% and Mac net sales decreased by 1% during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, due primarily to lower average selling prices. The Japan segment represented 6% of the Companys total net sales for the third quarters of both 2010 and 2009, and 6% and 5% of the Companys total net sales in the first nine months of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Asia-Pacific Net sales in Asia Pacific increased $1.1 billion or 160% during the third quarter of 2010 and increased $3.4 billion or 161% during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same periods in 2009. The growth in Asia-Pacific net sales was due mainly to the significant increase in iPhone revenue primarily attributable to country and carrier expansion and continued growth across existing carriers, strong demand for Mac portable and desktop systems, and strength in the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. Higher sales of iPod touch also contributed to the increase in net sales. The Asia Pacific segment represented 12% of the Companys total net sales in both the third quarter of 2010 and the first nine months of 2010 and represented 7% of the Companys total net sales in both the third quarter of 2009 and the first nine months of 2009. Retail Retail net sales increased $1.1 billion or 73% during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009, driven primarily by strong demand for iPad, as well as increased sales of Mac portable systems and higher sales of Mac and iPad-related accessories. Mac net sales and unit sales grew in the Retail segment by 29% and 38%, respectively, during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009. The Company opened seven new Retail stores during the third quarter of 2010, three of which were international stores, ending the quarter with 293 stores open as compared to 258 stores at the end of the third quarter of 2009. With an average of 287 stores and 254 stores opened during the third quarter of 2010 and 2009, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $9.0 million in the third quarter of 2010, compared to $5.9 million in the third quarter of 2009. The Retail segment represented 16% and 15% of the Companys total net sales in the third quarter of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Retail net sales grew $1.6 billion or 35% during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 due primarily to strong demand for iPad, continued increases in sales of Mac portable and desktop systems, and higher sales of Mac and iPad-related accessories. Mac net sales and unit sales grew by 26% and 36%, respectively, during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. Average revenue per store was $22.0 million for the first nine months of 2010 based on an average of 283 stores, up from $18.3 million in the first nine months of 2009 based on an average of 252 stores. The Retail segment represented 14% and 15% of the Companys total net sales for the first nine months of 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Retail segment reported operating income of $593 million during the third quarter of 2010 compared to operating income of $387 million during the third quarter of 2009, and reported operating income of $1.4 billion during the first nine months of 2010 compared to $1.1 billion during the first nine months of 2009. The increase in Retail operating income year-over-year is attributable to higher overall net sales and improved leverage of Retail operating expenses. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled $2.1 billion through the end of the third quarter of 2010. As of June 26, 2010, the Retail segment had approximately 22,400 full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities of $1.7 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores and such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. 38 Gross Margin Gross margin for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 and June 27, 2009 was as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 Net sales $ 15,700 $ 9,734 $ 44,882 $ 30,698 Cost of sales 9,564 5,751 26,710 18,581 Gross margin $ 6,136 $ 3,983 $ 18,172 $ 12,117 Gross margin percentage 39.1% 40.9% 40.5% 39.5% The gross margin percentage in the third quarter of 2010 was 39.1% compared to 40.9% in the third quarter of 2009. This decline in gross margin is primarily attributable to new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, including iPad, partially offset by a more favorable sales mix towards products with higher gross margins, including iPhone. The gross margin percentage for the first nine months of 2010 was 40.5% compared to 39.5% for the first nine months of 2009. This increase in gross margin was largely driven by a higher mix of iPhone sales. The Company expects its gross margin percentage to decrease in future periods compared to levels achieved during the first nine months of 2010 and anticipates gross margin levels of about 35% in the fourth quarter of 2010. This expected decline is largely due to flat or reduced average selling prices on new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, a stronger U.S. dollar, both expected and potential future cost increases for key components, and to a lesser extent, the impact in the fourth quarter of the recently announced program to provide iPhone 4 customers with a free case. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors, including but not limited to certain of those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subheading Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities , which is incorporated herein by reference. There can be no assurance that targeted gross margin percentage levels will be achieved. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and expected increases in the cost of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) and liquid crystal displays (LCDs), as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short-term by fluctuations in exchange rates. 39 Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 and June 27, 2009 were as follows (in millions, except for percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 26, 2010 June 27, 2009 Research and development $ 464 $ 341 $ 1,288 $ 975 Percentage of net sales 3.0% 3.5% 2.9% 3.2% Selling, general, and administrative $ 1,438 $ 1,010 $ 3,946 $ 3,086 Percentage of net sales 9.2% 10.4% 8.8% 10.1% Research and Development (R&D) Expenditures for R&D increased 36% or $123 million to $464 million during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, and increased 32% or $313 million to $1.3 billion during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. These increases were due primarily to an increase in headcount in the current year to support expanded R&D activities. In addition, $19 million and $64 million of software development costs were capitalized related to Mac OS X Version 10.6 Snow Leopard and excluded from R&D expense during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 27, 2009, respectively, while no software development costs were capitalized during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to continue to invest in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expenditures increased $428 million or 42% to $1.4 billion during the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, and increased $860 million or 28% to $3.9 billion during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. These increases were due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment, higher spending on marketing and advertising, higher stock-based compensation expenses, and increased variable costs associated with the overall growth of the Companys net sales. Other Income and Expense Total other income and expense decreased $2 million or 3% to $58 million during third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period of 2009, and decreased $140 million or 50% to $141 million during the first nine months of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. The overall decrease in other income and expense is primarily attributable to the decline in interest rates on a year-over-year basis, partially offset by the Companys higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased to 0.76% in the third quarter of 2010 from 1.11% in the third quarter of 2009. During the third quarter and first nine months of 2010 and 2009, the Company had no debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. The Companys investment portfolio had gross unrealized gains of $113 million and $73 million as of June 26, 2010 and September 26, 2009, respectively, which were partially offset by gross unrealized losses of $34 million and $16 million as of June 26, 2010 and September 26, 2009, respectively. As of June 26, 2010 and September 26, 2009, the gross unrealized gains related primarily to long-term marketable securities and the gross unrealized losses on the Companys marketable securities were caused primarily by changes in market interest rates or widening credit spreads. The Company considers the declines in market value of its marketable securities investment portfolio to be temporary in nature. The Company does not have the intent to sell, nor is it more likely than not the Company will be required to sell, any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Accordingly, no significant declines in fair value were recognized in the Companys Condensed Statements of Operations during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 and June 27, 2009. The Company may sell its marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic purposes, in anticipation of credit deterioration, or for duration management. The 40 Company recognized no significant net gains or losses during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 and June 27, 2009 related to such sales. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rates for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2010 were approximately 24% and 26%, respectively, compared to approximately 32% for both the three- and nine-month periods ended June 26, 2009. The Companys effective rates for both periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The lower effective tax rate during the third quarter of 2010 as compared to the same quarter in 2009 is due primarily to an increase in foreign earnings on which U.S. income taxes have not been provided as such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2004 through 2006 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS is currently examining the years 2007 through 2009. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2004 have been resolved. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company reached a tax settlement with the IRS for the years 2002 through 2003. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of June 26, 2010 and September 26, 2009 (in millions): June 26, 2010 September 26, 2009 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 45,839 $ 33,992 Accounts receivable, net $ 3,447 $ 3,361 Inventory $ 942 $ 455 Working capital $ 20,421 $ 20,049 As of June 26, 2010, the Company had $45.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $11.8 billion from September 26, 2009. The principal component of this net increase was the cash generated by operating activities of $12.9 billion, which was partially offset by payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment of $1.2 billion and payments made in connection with business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $615 million. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly rated securities with a minimum rating of single-A. As of June 26, 2010 and September 26, 2009, $27.1 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $1.6 billion during the first nine months of 2010, consisting of approximately $280 million for Retail store facilities and $1.3 billion for other capital expenditures. The Companys actual cash payments for these capital expenditures during the first nine months of 2010 were $1.2 billion. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $2.5 billion for capital expenditures during 2010, including approximately $400 million for Retail store facilities and approximately $2.1 billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, real estate acquisitions, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems enhancements. 41 Historically the Company has opened between 25 and 50 new retail stores per year. During 2010, the Company expects to open a number of new stores near the upper end of this range, over half of which are expected to be located outside of the U.S. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company. Lease Commitments As of September 26, 2009, the Company had total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases of $1.9 billion, $1.5 billion of which are related to the lease of retail space and related facilities. The Companys major facility leases are generally for terms of one to 20 years and generally provide renewal options for terms of one to five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms of five to 20 years, the majority of which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. Total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases related to the lease of retail space increased to $1.7 billion as of June 26, 2010. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. As of June 26, 2010, the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of $6.2 billion. The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements to secure the supply of certain inventory components. As of June 26, 2010, the Company had a total of $991 million of inventory component prepayments outstanding, which $161 million is classified as other current assets and $830 million is classified as other assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company had a total of $1.2 billion of inventory component prepayments outstanding as of September 26, 2009, of which $309 million was classified as other current assets and $844 million was classified as other assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $256 million as of June 26, 2010, primarily related to advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services, and other obligations. As of June 26, 2010, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $879 million and an additional $217 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify its operating system and application software customers against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party and, in the opinion of management, does not have a liability related to unresolved infringement claims subject to indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record a liability for indemnification costs as of either June 26, 2010 or September 26, 2009. 42 The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Companys financial condition or operating results.