Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsDebt Agreements. Compliance with these covenants and these ratios may prevent us from pursuing opportunities that we believe would benefit our business, including opportunities that we might pursue as part of our plans to expand our store base, our product offerings and sales channels. Failure of American Apparel to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants under its financing arrangements could result in the acceleration of its debt repayment obligations. The financing agreements between us and our lenders contain certain financial covenants relating to our capital expenditure limitations, availability under its revolving credit facility and debt to EBITDA ratios. Failure of American Apparel to maintain compliance with any of these financial covenants can result in American Apparel being unable to borrow under its revolving credit facility, which it utilizes to access its working capital, and may adversely affect the ability of American Apparel to finance and continue its operations. Such a failure could also result in an increase in the interest rate payable under the financing arrangements and acceleration of the outstanding debt in its entirety, and may adversely affect the ability of American Apparel to obtain financing that may be necessary to effectively operate its business and grow the business going forward. Substantially all of our assets are used to secure our credit facilities, certain term loans and equipment leasing agreements. Our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets including cash, inventory and accounts receivable, and our second lien term loan facility is also secured by substantially all assets of our. All leasing agreements are secured by equipment provided by the leasing arrangement. In the event of a default on these agreements, substantially all of the assets of American Apparel could be subject to liquidation by the creditors, which liquidation could result in no assets being left for the stockholders after the creditors receive their required payment. Cost increases in the materials or labor used to manufacture our products could negatively impact our business and financial condition. The manufacture of our products is labor intensive and utilizes raw materials supplied by third parties. An important part of American Apparel branding and marketing is that our products are made in the United States. The Federal Trade Commission has stated that for a product to be called Made in USA, or claimed to be of domestic origin without qualifications or limits on the claim, the product must be all or virtually all made in the U.S. The term United States includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories and possessions. All or virtually all means that all significant parts and processing that go into the product must be of U.S. origin. That is, the product should contain no - or negligible - foreign content. We meet the FTCs Made in USA standard and from the knitting process to the final sewing of a garment, all of the processes are conducted in the U.S., either directly by us in our knitting, manufacturing, dyeing and finishing facilities located in Los Angeles or through commission knitters, dyers and sewers in the Los Angeles metropolitan area and other regions in the U.S. If the cost of labor materially increases, our financial results could be materially adversely affected and our ability to compete against companies with lower labor costs could be hampered. Material increases in labor costs in the United States could also force us to move all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas, which could adversely affect the American Apparel brand identity. Similarly, increases in the prices we pay to the suppliers of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to compete and could force us to seek to offset increased raw material costs by relocating all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas to locations with lower labor costs. 17 Table of Contents Unionization of employees at our facilities could result in increased risk of work stoppages and high labor costs. Our employees are not party to any collective bargaining agreement or union. If employees at our manufacturing or distribution facilities were to unionize, our relationship with our employees could be adversely affected. We would also face an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. Accordingly, unionization of our employees could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs and financial condition and could force us to raise prices on our products, curtail operations and/or relocate all or a portion of our operations overseas. We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. We also are subject to numerous federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are currently defending one wage and hour suit. Should this matter be decided against us, we could incur substantial liability, experience an increase in similar suits, and suffer reputational harm. We are unable to predict the financial outcome of this matter at this time, and any views we form as to the viability of this claim or the financial exposure in which it could result may change. No assurance can be made that this matter, either individually or together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, will not result in a material financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a more detailed discussion of our pending litigation. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects (such as emissions to air, discharges to water, and the generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes). We are also subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that impose liability for the costs of clean up or other remediation of contaminated property, including damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. Certain of our operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which are or may become regulated as hazardous substances. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations regarding the use and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. As is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from its properties or any associated offsite disposal locations, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of its properties, We may be held liable. The amount of such liability could be material. 18 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are located and will be located in higher-cost geographic locations, placing us at a possible disadvantage to competitors that have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations overseas. Despite the general industry-wide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia, our textile manufacturing operations are still located in the United States, which is a higher-cost location relative to these offshore locations. In addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than American Apparel, which also places us at a cost disadvantage. Our competitors lower costs of production may allow them to offer their products at a lower price than our selling prices for similar products. This could force us to lower our margins or to compete more vigorously with non-price competitive strategies to preserve our margins and sales volume. Our reliance on operational facilities located in the same vicinity makes our business susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting the location of our facilities. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. Specifically, we operate principally out of its 800,000 square foot facility in downtown Los Angeles, which houses our executive offices, as well as our cutting, sewing, and distribution operations. We also operate a knitting facility in Los Angeles, California; a cutting, sewing, garment dyeing and finishing facility in South Gate, California; a fabric dyeing and finishing facility in Hawthorne, California, a cutting, sewing, fabric dyeing and finishing facility in Garden Grove, California; as well as a warehouse facility in Commerce, California and Los Angeles, California. As a result, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. Southern California is particularly susceptible to earthquakes. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. Furthermore, if there were a major earthquake, we may have to cease operations for a significant portion of time due to damages to our factory and the inability to deliver products to our distribution centers. Third party failure to deliver merchandise to stores and customers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise. The efficient operation of our stores and wholesale business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. Independent third party transportation companies deliver a substantial portion of our merchandise to our stores. These shippers may not continue to ship our products at current pricing or terms. These shippers may employ personnel represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income. Elimination or scaling back of U.S. import protections would weaken an important barrier to the entry of foreign competitors who produce their merchandise in lower labor cost locations. This could place us at a disadvantage to those competitors. Our products are subject to foreign competition. Foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages, which can enable them to sell their products at relatively lower prices. However, in the past, 19 Table of Contents foreign competitors have been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions in the form of tariffs and quotas. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations, and is therefore unpredictable. Given the number of foreign low cost producers, the substantial elimination or scaling back of the import protections that protect domestic apparel producers such as American Apparel could have a material adverse effect on our business and the financial condition and results of operation. Because we utilize foreign suppliers and sell into foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: economic and political instability; restrictive actions by foreign governments; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights, changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect profit margins; timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to American Apparels warehouses; complications complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the exportation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes; and complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. These and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the supply of our products, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all, inhibit our suppliers ability to procure certain materials and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory inquiries, investigations, claims and suits. We are currently defending one wage and hour suit, one sexual harassment suit and responding to several allegations of discrimination and/or harassment that have been filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or state counterpart agencies. In the event one or more of these matters are decided against us, we could not only incur substantial liability but also experience an increase in similar suits and suffer reputational harm. Furthermore, the previous insurer for our employment practices liability insurance policy alleges that the sexual harassment suit is not covered by that insurance policy. We are unable to predict the financial outcome that could result from these matters at this time and any views we form as to the viability of these claims or the financial exposure in which they could result could change from time to time as the matters proceed through their course, as facts are established and various judicial determinations are made. No assurance can be made that these matters will not have material financial exposure, which together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a more detailed discussion of American Apparels pending litigation. The process of upgrading our information technology infrastructure may disrupt our operations. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory and production, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and 20 Table of Contents maintain cost-efficient operations. We have performed an evaluation of our information technology systems and requirements and have implemented upgrades to our information technology systems supporting the business. These upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which couldespecially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday seasonresult in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers. We have potentially adverse exposure to credit risks on our wholesale sales. We are exposed to the risk of financial non-performance by our customers, primarily in our wholesale business. Sales to wholesale customers represented approximately 25.3% of total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our extension of credit involves considerable use of judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition and payment history. We monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on its customers. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon historical trends and other available information. However, delays in collecting or the inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A failure in our Internet operations could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage. Our online retail operations accounted for approximately 6.7% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 and are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results. Risks to online revenue include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage; changes in required technology interfaces; web site downtime; difficulty in recreating the in-store experience on a web site; and risks related to the failure of the systems that operate the web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales and damage our brands reputation. We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, as further described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These material weaknesses relate to our control environment and our financial controls and reporting process. 21 Table of Contents A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, due to the identified material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2009, our disclosure