Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, expects, believes, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 26, 2009 and any amendments thereto (the 2009 Form 10-K) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available on the Companys website at http://www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Principles In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards related to revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables and arrangements that include software elements (new accounting principles). The Company adopted the new accounting principles on a retrospective basis during the first quarter of 2010. Under the historical accounting principles, the Company was required to account for sales of both iPhone and Apple TV using subscription accounting because the Company indicated it might from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features for those products free of charge. Under subscription accounting, revenue and associated product cost of sales for iPhone and Apple TV were deferred at the time of sale and recognized on a straight-line basis over each products estimated economic life. This resulted in the deferral of significant amounts of revenue and cost of sales related to iPhone and Apple TV. The new accounting principles generally require the Company to account for the sale of both iPhone and Apple TV as two deliverables. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the right included with the purchase of iPhone and Apple TV to receive on a when-and-if-available basis future unspecified software upgrades and features relating to the products essential software. The new accounting principles result in the recognition of substantially all of the revenue and product costs from the sales of iPhone and Apple TV at the time of sale. Additionally, the Company is required to estimate a standalone selling price for the unspecified software upgrade rights included with the sale of iPhone and Apple TV and recognizes that amount ratably over the 24-month estimated life of the related hardware device. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under the subheadings Basis of Presentation and Preparation and Revenue Recognition and Note 2, Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Principles of this Form 10-Q provides additional information on the Companys change in accounting resulting from the adoption of the new accounting principles and the Companys revenue recognition accounting policy. 29 Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Companys products and services include the Mac line of desktop and portable computers, iPhone , the iPod line of portable digital music and video players, Apple TV , Xserve , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the Mac OS X operating system, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Mac, iPhone and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumer, small and mid-sized business (SMB), education, enterprise, government, and creative markets. A further description of the Companys products may be found below under the heading Products and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2009 Form 10-K. The Company is focused on providing innovative products and solutions to consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative customers that greatly enhance their evolving digital lifestyles and work environments. The Companys overall business strategy is to control the design and development of the hardware and software for all of its products, including the personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics devices. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment in research and development is critical to the development and enhancement of innovative products and technologies. In conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues to build and host a robust platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. Most recently the Company launched the App Store that allows users to browse, search for, and purchase third-party applications through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or by wirelessly downloading directly to an iPhone or iPod touch. The Company also desires to support a community for the development of third-party products that complement the Companys offerings through its developer programs. The Company is therefore uniquely positioned to offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac line of personal computers, mobile communications with iPhone, consumer electronics with its iPod product families, and distribution of third-party digital content and applications through its online iTunes Store. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics markets as well as a leader in the emerging market for distribution of digital content and applications, these markets are highly competitive and subject to aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is necessary to maintain or expand its position in the markets where it competes. The Companys research and development spending is focused on further developing its existing Mac line of personal computers, its operating system, application software, iPhone and iPod line of portable digital music and video players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing in new product areas and technologies. The Company also believes increased investment in marketing and advertising programs is critical to increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available on Mac computers, and demonstrate the compatibility of the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by opening its own retail stores in the U.S. and in international markets. The Company had 283 stores open as of December 26, 2009. 30 The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors at selected third-party reseller locations, and the Apple Premium Reseller Program, through which independently run businesses focus on the Apple platform and provide a high level of customer service and product expertise. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an efficient way to demonstrate the advantages of its Mac computers and other products over those of its competitors. The Company also sells to customers directly through its online stores around the world and through its direct sales force. The Company distributes iPhones in over 80 countries, through its direct channels, its cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. The Company has signed multi-year agreements with various cellular network carriers authorizing them to distribute and provide cellular network services for iPhones. These agreements are generally not exclusive with a specific carrier, except in the U.S., Germany, Spain and certain other countries. The Companys iPods are sold through a significant number of distribution points to provide broad access. iPods can be purchased in certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains and specialty retail stores, as well as through the channels for Mac distribution listed above. Products The Company offers a range of personal computing products, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players, as well as a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and various third-party hardware and software products. The Company designs, develops, and markets to Mac and Windows users its iPhone mobile communication devices and its family of iPod digital music and video players, along with related accessories and services, including the online distribution of third-party digital content and applications through the Companys iTunes Store. In addition, the Company offers its own software products, including Mac OS X, the Companys proprietary operating system software for the Mac; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. A detailed discussion of the Companys other products may be found in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2009 Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys 2009 Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation of marketable securities, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a 31 portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products (e.g., Mac computers, iPhones, iPods and peripherals), software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware, and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include tangible products containing software essential to the tangible products functionality and undelivered software elements relating to the tangible products essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the new accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). For iPhone, the Company indicated it might from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. The Company has identified two deliverables generally contained in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the right included with the purchase of iPhone to receive on a when-and-if-available basis future unspecified software upgrades and features relating to the products essential software. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the two deliverables, the allocation of revenue has been based on the Companys ESPs. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the unspecified software upgrade right are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 24-month estimated life of the related hardware. All product cost of sales, including estimated warranty costs, are generally recognized at the time of sale. Costs for engineering and sales and marketing are expensed as incurred. If the estimated life of the hardware product should change, the future rate of amortization of the revenue allocated to the software upgrade right will also change. For all periods presented, the Companys ESP for the software upgrade right included with each iPhone sold is $25. The Companys process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE or TPE involves managements judgment. The Companys process considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. The Company believes its customers, particularly consumers, would be reluctant to buy unspecified software upgrade rights related to iPhone. This view is primarily based on the fact that upgrade rights do not obligate the Company to provide upgrades at a particular time or at all, and do not specify to customers which upgrades or features will be delivered in the future. Therefore, the Company has concluded if it were to sell upgrade rights on a standalone basis, such as those included with iPhone, the selling price would be relatively low. Key factors considered by the Company in developing the ESPs for iPhone upgrade rights include prices charged by the Company for similar offerings, the Companys historical pricing practices, the nature of the upgrade rights (e.g., unspecified and when-and-if-available), and the relative ESP of the upgrade rights as compared to the total selling price of the product. If the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change or should future facts and circumstances lead the Company to consider additional factors, the Companys ESP for software upgrades related to future iPhone sales could change in future periods. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. 32 Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of investments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, as reported in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of investments impact the Companys net income only when such investments are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell, the investment before recovery of the investments amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired or not, could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular investment. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors, cellular network carriers, and resellers and directly to certain education, consumer, and enterprise customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral in certain instances to limit credit risk. In addition, when possible the Company does attempt to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers in Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, or by requiring third-party financing, loans or leases to support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. As such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse or credit-risk-sharing related to any of these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral, third-party financing arrangements, or credit insurance are outstanding with the Companys distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on managements assessment of the ability to collect specific customer accounts and includes consideration of the credit-worthiness and financial condition of those specific customers. The Company records an allowance to reduce the specific receivables to the amount that it reasonably believes to be collectible. The Company also records an allowance for all other trade receivables based on multiple factors, including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition of the Companys distribution channels, and the aging of such receivables. If there is a deterioration of a major customers financial condition, if the Company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit-worthiness of a major customer, or if future actual default rates on trade receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have to adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect its results of operations in the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics industries are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. 33 The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. The Company periodically provides updates to its applications and operating system software to maintain the softwares compliance with specifications. The estimated cost to develop such updates is accounted for as warranty cost that is recognized at the time related software revenue is recognized. Factors considered in determining appropriate accruals related to such updates include the number of units delivered, the number of updates expected to occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost of the resources necessary to develop these updates. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. In accordance with GAAP, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes and measures uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, whereby the Company only recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part II, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. In accordance with GAAP, the Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In managements opinion, the Company does not have a potential liability related to any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of these legal matters or should several of these legal matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 34 Net Sales The following table summarizes net sales and Mac unit sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during the three months ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 (in millions, except unit sales in thousands and per unit amounts): Three Months Ended December 26, 2009 December 27, 2008 Change Net Sales by Operating Segment : Americas net sales $ 6,092 $ 5,301 15% Europe net sales 5,024 3,585 40% Japan net sales 783 498 57% Asia-Pacific net sales 1,813 750 142% Retail net sales 1,971 1,746 13% Total net sales $ 15,683 $ 11,880 32% Mac Unit Sales by Operating Segment : Americas Mac unit sales 1,187 912 30% Europe Mac unit sales 1,068 795 34% Japan Mac unit sales 105 99 6% Asia-Pacific Mac unit sales 313 203 54% Retail Mac unit sales 689 515 34% Total Mac unit sales 3,362 2,524 33% Net Sales by Product : Desktops (a) $ 1,692 $ 1,045 62% Portables (b) 2,758 2,520 9% Total Mac net sales 4,450 3,565 25% iPod 3,391 3,371 1% Other music related products and services (c) 1,164 1,011 15% iPhone and related products and services (d) 5,578 2,940 90% Peripherals and other hardware (e) 469 387 21% Software, service and other sales (f) 631 606 4% Total net sales $ 15,683 $ 11,880 32% Unit Sales by Product : Desktops (a) 1,234 728 70% Portables (b) 2,128 1,796 18% Total Mac unit sales 3,362 2,524 33% Net sales per Mac unit sold (g) $ 1,324 $ 1,412 (6%) iPod unit sales 20,970 22,727 (8%) Net sales per iPod unit sold (h) $ 162 $ 148 9% iPhone unit sales 8,737 4,363 100% (a) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. (b) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. (c) Consists of iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. (d) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. (e) Includes sales of displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. (f) Includes sales of Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. (g) Derived by dividing total Mac net sales by total Mac unit sales. (h) Derived by dividing total iPod net sales by total iPod unit sales. 35 Net sales during the first quarter of 2010 increased $3.8 billion or 32% compared to the same quarter in 2009. Several factors contributed positively to this increase, including the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $5.6 billion in the first quarter of 2010, an increase of $2.6 billion or 90% compared to the first quarter of 2009. iPhone net sales accounted for 36% of the Companys total net revenue. iPhone handset unit sales totaled 8.7 million during the first quarter 2010, which represents an increase of 4.4 million or 100% compared to the first quarter of 2009. This growth is attributed primarily to expanded distribution and strong overall demand for iPhones. iPhone 3GS was released in the U.S. on June 19, 2009 and in many other countries over the remainder of 2009. iPhone revenue includes handset revenue recognized and revenue from sales of iPhone accessories and carrier agreements. Mac net sales increased $885 million or 25% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. Mac unit sales increased by 838,000 units or 33%. Net sales related to the Companys Mac shipments accounted for 28% of the Companys total net revenue. During the first quarter of 2010, Mac desktop systems net sales and unit sales increased by 62% and 70%, respectively, compared to the first quarter of 2009. This growth was driven by strong demand for iMac, which was updated in October 2009. Mac desktop systems experienced double-digit net sales and unit growth in each of the Companys reportable operating segments compared to the same period in 2009. Net sales and unit sales of the Companys Mac portable systems increased by 9% and 18%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. The growth in the Companys Mac portable systems was due primarily to strong sales of MacBook, which was updated in October 2009. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $153 million or 15% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009, due primarily to increased net sales from the iTunes Store, which experienced double-digit growth in each of the Companys geographic segments. The Company believes this continued growth is the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading third-party digital content and applications, continued growth in its customer base of iPod and iPhone customers, the expansion of third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store, and the continued interest in and growth of the iTunes App Store. The Company continues to expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Net sales of iPods increased by 1% year-over-year, while iPod unit sales decreased by 1.8 million units or 8% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. Net sales per iPod unit sold increased 9% from $148 in the first quarter of 2009 to $162 in the first quarter of 2010, resulting from the higher product mix of iPod touch. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys operating and reporting segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments do not include activities related to the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores in the U.S. and in international markets. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services to the same types of customers. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 9, Segment Information and Geographic Data in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Americas Net sales in the Americas during the first quarter of 2010 increased $791 million or 15% over the first quarter of 2009. The increase in net sales during the first quarter of 2010 was attributable to increased iPhone revenue, strong demand for Mac desktop and portable systems, and higher sales of third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. Also contributing to the increase in net sales were higher iPod net sales due primarily to strong demand for iPod touch. Americas Mac net sales and unit sales increased 19% and 30%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Americas segment represented 39% and 45% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2010 and 2009, respectively. 36 Europe Net sales in Europe increased $1.4 billion or 40% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The growth in net sales was due mainly to the significant increase in iPhone revenue primarily attributable to country and carrier expansion, strong demand for Mac desktop and portable systems and strength in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Europe Mac net sales and unit sales increased 35% and 34%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Europe segment represented 32% and 30% of total net sales in the first quarter in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Japan Japans net sales increased $285 million or 57% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The key contributors to this growth were increased iPhone revenue, stronger demand for Mac desktop systems and strength in the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by decreased sales of Mac portable systems. Mac unit sales grew in the Japan segment by 6%, while Mac net sales declined by 11% due primarily to lower average selling prices during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Japan segment represented 5% and 4% of total net sales in the first quarter in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Asia-Pacific Net sales in Asia Pacific increased $1.1 billion or 142% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The growth in net sales was mainly attributable to the significant increase in iPhone revenue primarily attributable to country and carrier expansion, increased sales of Mac portable and desktop systems, strong demand for iPod touch, as well as strengthening of the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. Mac net sales and unit sales grew in the Asia Pacific region by 44% and 54%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Asia Pacific segment represented 11% and 6% of total net sales in the first quarter of 2010 and 2009, respectively. Retail Retail net sales increased $225 million or 13% during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The increase in net sales was driven by strong demand for Mac desktop and portable systems, increased iPhone revenue, offset partially by a decrease in net sales of iPods. Mac net sales and unit sales grew in the Retail segment by 21% and 34%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009. The Retail segment represented 13% and 15% of total net sales in the first quarter in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company opened ten new retail stores during the first quarter of 2010, including a total of six international stores, ending the quarter with 283 stores open as compared to 251 stores at the end of the first quarter of 2009. With an average of 278 stores and 249 stores opened during the first quarter of 2010 and 2009, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $7.1 million for the first quarter of 2010 from $7.0 million in the first quarter of 2009. The Retail segment reported operating income of $481 million during the first quarter of 2010 compared to operating income of $409 million during the first quarter in 2009. The increase in Retail operating income is attributable to higher overall net sales and a higher gross margin percentage consistent with that experienced Company-wide. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment were $107 million during the first quarter of 2010, bringing the total capital asset purchases since inception of the Retail segment to $1.9 billion. As of December 26, 2009, the Retail segment had approximately 19,500 full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities of $1.6 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores and such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. 37 Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 was as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): Three Months Ended December 26, 2009 December 27, 2008 Net sales $ 15,683 $ 11,880 Cost of sales 9,272 7,373 Gross margin $ 6,411 $ 4,507 Gross margin percentage 40.9% 37.9% The gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2010 was 40.9% compared to 37.9% in the first quarter of 2009. The primary contributors of this increase were lower commodity and other product costs, a more favorable sales mix toward products with higher gross margins, and increased leverage on fixed costs, which were partially offset by product price reductions. The Company expects its gross margin percentage to decrease in future periods compared to levels achieved during 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, and anticipates gross margin levels of about 39% in the second quarter of 2010. This expected decline is due largely to flat or reduced average selling prices on new and innovative products that have higher cost structures that deliver greater value to customers and both expected and potential future cost increases for key components. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors, including but not limited to certain of those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subheading Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities , which is incorporated herein by reference. There can be no assurance that targeted gross margin percentage levels will be achieved. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and expected increases in the cost of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) and liquid crystal displays (LCDs), as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short-term by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, were as follows (in millions, except for percentages): Three Months Ended December 26, 2009 December 27, 2008 Research and development $ 398 $ 315 Percentage of net sales 3% 3% Selling, general, and administrative $ 1,288 $ 1,091 Percentage of net sales 8% 9% Research and Development (R&D) R&D expense increased 26% or $83 million to $398 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to $315 million in the first quarter of 2009. These increases were due primarily to an increase in headcount in the current year to support expanded R&D activities and higher stock-based compensation expenses. In addition, $22 million of software development costs were capitalized related to Mac OS X Version 10.6 Snow Leopard and excluded from R&D expense during the first quarter of 2009, while no software development costs were capitalized during the first 38 quarter of 2010. Although total R&D expense increased 26%, it remained flat as a percentage of net sales, which increased 32% in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to continue to invest in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expense increased 18% or $197 million to $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2010 compared to $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2009. This increase is due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment in both domestic and international markets, higher spending on marketing and advertising and higher stock-based compensation expenses. Other Income and Expense Total other income and expense decreased $125 million or 79% to $33 million during the first quarter of 2010 compared to $158 million in the first quarter of 2009. The overall decrease in other income and expense is attributable to the decline in interest rates during the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009, partially offset by the Companys higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased to 0.75% in the first quarter of 2010 from 2.37% in the first quarter of 2009. During the first quarter of 2010 and 2009, the Company had no debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. The Companys investment portfolio had gross unrealized gains of $72 million and $73 million as of December 26, 2009 and September 26, 2009, respectively, which were partially offset by gross unrealized losses of $17 million and $16 million as of December 26, 2009 and September 26, 2009, respectively. The gross unrealized gains as of December 26, 2009 and September 26, 2009 related primarily to long-term marketable securities. The gross unrealized losses on the Companys marketable securities were caused primarily by changes in market interest rates. The Company considers the declines in market value of its marketable securities investment portfolio to be temporary in nature. The Company does not have the intent to sell, nor is it more likely than not the Company will be required to sell, any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Accordingly, no material declines in fair value were recognized in the Companys Condensed Statements of Operations during the first quarter of 2010 and 2009. The Company may sell its marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic purposes, in anticipation of credit deterioration, or for duration management. The Company recognized no material net gains or losses during the first quarters of 2010 or 2009 related to such sales. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2010 was approximately 29% compared with approximately 31% for the first quarter of 2009. The Companys effective rate for both periods differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The lower effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the same quarter in 2009 is due primarily to an increase in foreign earnings on which U.S. income taxes have not been provided. The Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2002 through 2003 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2002 have been resolved. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. 39 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of December 26, 2009 and September 26, 2009 (in millions): December 26, 2009 September 26, 2009 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 39,820 $ 33,992 Accounts receivable, net $ 3,090 $ 3,361 Inventory $ 576 $ 455 Working capital $ 20,235 $ 20,049 As of December 26, 2009, the Company had $39.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $5.8 billion from September 26, 2009. The principal component of this net increase was the cash generated by operating activities of $5.8 billion, which was partially offset by payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment of $376 million. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly rated securities with a minimum rating of single-A. As of December 26, 2009 and September 26, 2009, $21.3 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. Capital Assets The Companys cash payments for capital asset purchases were $376 million during the first quarter of 2010, consisting of approximately $107 million for retail store facilities and $269 million for real estate acquisitions and corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $1.9 billion for capital asset purchases during 2010, including approximately $400 million for Retail facilities and approximately $1.5 billion for corporate facilities, infrastructure, and product tooling and manufacturing process equipment. Historically the Company has opened between 25 and 50 new retail stores per year. During 2010, the Company expects to open a number of new stores near the upper end of this range, over half of which are expected to be located outside of the U.S. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company. Lease Commitments As of September 26, 2009, the Company had total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases of $1.9 billion, $1.5 billion of which related to the lease of retail space and related facilities. The Companys major facility leases are generally for terms of one to 20 years and generally provide renewal options for terms of one to five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms of five to 20 years, the majority of which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. Total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases related to the lease of retail space increased to $1.6 billion as of December 26, 2009. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. As of December 26, 2009, the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of $3.7 billion. 40 The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements to secure the supply of certain inventory components. As of December 26, 2009, the Company had a total of $1.0 billion of inventory component prepayments outstanding. Asset Retirement Obligations The Companys asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments to return property subject to operating leases to original condition upon lease termination. As of December 26, 2009, the Company estimated that gross expected future cash flows of approximately $41 million would be required to fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $298 million as of December 26, 2009, primarily related to advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services, and other obligations. As of December 26, 2009, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.0 billion and an additional $295 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Although timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is not certain, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce its unrecognized tax benefits by between $105 million and $145 million in the next 12 months. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party and, in the opinion of management, does not have a liability related to unresolved infringement claims subject to indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record a liability for infringement costs as of either December 26, 2009 or September 26, 2009. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Companys financial condition or operating results.