Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone , iPad , Mac , Apple Watch , Apple TV , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS , watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud , Apple Pay and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store , App Store , Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively Digital Content and Services). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977. Business Strategy The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services to provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease-of-use and seamless integration. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of digital content and applications through its Digital Content and Services, which allows customers to discover and download digital content, iOS, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV applications, and books through either a Mac or Windows personal computer or through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices (iOS devices), Apple TV and Apple Watch. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. The Company believes a high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the Companys products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Companys strategy also includes building and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company believes ongoing investment in research and development (R&D), marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products, services and technologies. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Companys other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Companys customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Companys reportable segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading Segment Operating Performance, and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 1 Products iPhone iPhone is the Companys line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. iPhone includes Siri , a voice-activated intelligent assistant, and Apple Pay and Touch ID on qualifying devices. In September 2017, the Company introduced iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, featuring a new glass and aluminum design, enhanced cameras and speakers, wireless charging and augmented reality optimization. Additionally, in September 2017, the Company announced iPhone X, featuring an all-glass design with a Super Retina OLED display and facial recognition. iPhone 8 and 8 Plus were available starting in September 2017, and iPhone X is expected to be available in November 2017. The Companys line of smartphones also includes iPhone 7, 7 Plus, 6s, 6s Plus and SE models. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. iPad iPad is the Companys line of multi-purpose tablets based on its iOS operating system, which includes iPad Pro , iPad and iPad mini. iPad includes Siri, Apple Pay and Touch ID. In June 2017, the Company released a new 10.5-inch iPad Pro and an updated 12.9-inch iPad Pro with more advanced displays and enhanced performance. iPad works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. Mac Mac is the Companys line of desktop and portable personal computers based on its macOS operating system. Mac includes Siri and Apple Pay and also includes Touch ID on qualifying devices. The Companys desktop computers include iMac , 21.5 iMac with Retina 4K display, 27 iMac with Retina 5K display, Mac Pro and Mac mini . In June 2017, the Company announced the new iMac Pro, which is expected to be available in December 2017. The Companys portable computers include MacBook , MacBook Air , MacBook Pro and MacBook Pro with Touch Bar. Operating Systems iOS iOS is the Companys mobile operating system that serves as the foundation for iOS devices. Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apples iCloud services. In September 2017, the Company released iOS 11, which includes new iPad features, new capabilities to improve images in Photos and Camera, enhanced Siri functionality and a redesigned App Store. iOS 11 also introduces ARKit, an augmented reality framework for developers. macOS macOS is the Companys desktop operating system and is built on an open-source UNIX-based foundation and provides an intuitive and integrated computer experience. Support for iCloud is built into macOS so users can access content and information from Mac, iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. macOS High Sierra, released in September 2017, is the 14th major release of macOS and incorporates new storage, video and graphics technologies, and includes improvements to Photos, Safari and Mail. watchOS watchOS is the Companys operating system for Apple Watch. In September 2017, the Company released watchOS 4, which adds a proactive Siri watch face that displays the information users need most throughout the day, personalized activity coaching and a new music experience. watchOS 4 also includes an enhanced Workout app and introduces GymKit, a technology platform that offers users connected workouts with cardio equipment. tvOS tvOS is the Companys operating system for Apple TV. The tvOS operating system is based on the Companys iOS platform and enables developers to create new apps and games specifically for Apple TV and deliver them to customers through the Apple TV App Store. tvOS incorporates Siri capabilities that allow searching across apps and services. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 2 Application Software The Companys application software includes iWork and various other software, including Final Cut Pro , Logic Pro X and FileMaker Pro. iWork is the Companys integrated productivity suite included with all Mac computers and is designed to help users create, present and publish documents through Pages , presentations through Keynote and spreadsheets through Numbers . The Company also has Multi-Touch versions of iWork applications designed specifically for use on iOS devices, which are available as free downloads for all new iOS devices. Services Digital Content and Services The iTunes Store, available for iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple TV, allows customers to purchase and download music and TV shows, rent or purchase movies and download free podcasts. The App Store, available for iOS devices, allows customers to discover and download apps and purchase in-app content. The Mac App Store, available for Mac computers, allows customers to discover, download and install Mac applications. The TV App Store allows customers access to apps and games specifically for Apple TV. The iBooks Store, available for iOS devices and Mac computers, features e-books from major and independent publishers. Apple Music offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations that evolve based on a users play or download activity and a subscription-based internet streaming service that also provides unlimited access to the Apple Music library. iCloud iCloud is the Companys cloud service which stores music, photos, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them up-to-date and available across multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple TV. iCloud services include iCloud Drive , iCloud Photo Library, Family Sharing, Find My iPhone, iPad or Mac, Find My Friends, Notes, iCloud Keychain and iCloud Backup for iOS devices. AppleCare The Company offers a range of support options for its customers. These include assistance that is built into software products, electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) and AppleCare+ (AC+). APP and AC+ are fee-based services that extend the coverage of phone support eligibility and hardware warranty repairs. APP and AC+ offer additional coverage under some circumstances for instances of accidental damage and are available in certain countries for certain products. Apple Pay Apple Pay is the Companys cashless payment service available in certain countries that offers an easy, secure and private way to pay. Apple Pay allows users to pay for purchases in participating stores accepting contactless payments and to pay for purchases within participating apps on qualifying devices. Apple Pay accepts credit and debit cards across major card networks and also supports reward programs and store-issued credit and debit cards. The Company expects to release an update to iOS 11 and watchOS 4 in fall 2017 that will allow peer-to-peer payments using Apple Pay. Other Products Accessories The Company sells a variety of Apple-branded and third-party accessories, including Beats products, headphones, displays, storage devices, and various other connectivity and computing products and supplies. In December 2016, the Company released AirPods , new wireless headphones that interact with Siri. Additionally, in June 2017, the Company announced the HomePod wireless speaker and in September 2017, announced AirPower, a new wireless charging accessory, which are expected to be available in December 2017 and calendar year 2018, respectively. Apple TV Apple TV connects to consumers TVs and enables them to access digital content directly for streaming video, playing music and games, and viewing photos. Content from Apple Music and other media services is also available on Apple TV. Apple TV allows streaming digital content from Mac and Windows personal computers through Home Share and from compatible Mac and iOS devices through AirPlay . Apple TV runs on the Companys tvOS operating system and is based on apps built for the television. Additionally, the Apple TV remote features Siri, allowing users to search and access content with their voice. In September 2017, the Company introduced Apple TV 4K, which supports 4K and High Dynamic Range content, providing customers with enhanced picture quality. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 3 Apple Watch Apple Watch is a personal electronic device that combines the watchOS user interface and technologies created specifically for a smaller device, including the Digital Crown, a unique navigation tool that allows users to seamlessly scroll, zoom and navigate, and Force Touch, a technology that senses the difference between a tap and a press and allows users to access controls within apps. Apple Watch enables users to communicate in new ways from their wrist, track their health and fitness through activity and workout apps, and includes Siri and Apple Pay. In September 2017, the Company introduced Apple Watch Series 3, featuring health and fitness enhancements and built-in cellular capability on qualifying devices. iPod touch iPod touch, based on the Companys iOS operating system, is a flash memory-based digital music and media player that works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing and playing digital content and apps. Developer Programs The Companys developer programs support app developers with building, testing and distributing apps for iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS. Developer program membership provides access to beta software and advanced app capabilities (e.g., CloudKit , HealthKit and Apple Pay), the ability to test apps using TestFlight , distribution on the App Store, access to App Analytics and code-level technical support. Developer programs also exist for businesses creating apps for internal use (the Apple Developer Enterprise Program) and developers creating accessories for Apple devices (the MFi Program). All developers, even those who are not developer program members, can sign in with their Apple ID to post on the Apple Developer Forums and use Xcode , the Companys integrated development environment for creating apps for Apple platforms. Xcode includes project management tools; analysis tools to collect, display and compare app performance data; simulation tools to locally run, test and debug apps; and tools to simplify the design and development of user interfaces. All developers also have access to extensive technical documentation and sample code. Markets and Distribution The Companys customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. During 2017 , the Companys net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 28% and 72%, respectively, of total net sales. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products and services are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to build and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. The Companys retail stores are typically located at high-traffic locations in quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. By operating its own stores and locating them in desirable high-traffic locations the Company is better positioned to ensure a high-quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing of the Companys products and related solutions. The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training, and offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software and other accessories that complement the Companys products. The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high-quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of product expertise, integration and support services. The Company is committed to delivering solutions to help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction can result in higher levels of student achievement and has designed a range of products, services and programs to address the needs of education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution of, and access to, education-related materials through iTunes U , a platform that allows students and teachers to share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products to the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its retail and online stores. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 4 The Company also sells its hardware and software products to enterprise and government customers in each of its reportable segments. The Companys products are deployed in these markets because of their performance, productivity, ease-of-use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Companys products are compatible with thousands of third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment of custom applications as well as remote device administration. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and the Company is confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of its business. These markets are characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use of mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and other digital electronic devices. Many of the Companys competitors that sell mobile devices and personal computers based on other operating systems seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. The Companys financial condition and operating results can be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on gross margins. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product features (including security features), relative price and performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition in these markets to intensify significantly as competitors attempt to imitate some of the features of the Companys products and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized by aggressive price competition, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The Companys digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer music and video services. The Companys future financial condition and operating results depend on the Companys ability to continue to develop and offer new innovative products and services in each of the markets in which it competes. The Company believes it offers superior innovation and integration of the entire solution including the hardware (iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV), software (iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS), online services and distribution of digital content and applications (Digital Content and Services). Some of the Companys current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the Companys offerings. Supply of Components Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, a few components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. In addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants in the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. If the Companys supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Companys financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Companys business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 5 Substantially all of the Companys hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. Certain of these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers of components and manufacturers for many of the Companys products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Companys operating results could be adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments. The Companys manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover its requirements for periods up to 150 days . Research and Development Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through R&D, licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Total R&D expense was $ 11.6 billion , $ 10.0 billion and $ 8.1 billion in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and a number of foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Companys products. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. Many of the Companys products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Companys products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data During 2017 , the Companys domestic and international net sales accounted for 37% and 63% , respectively, of total net sales. Information regarding financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading Segment Operating Performance, and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Substantially all of the Companys hardware products are currently manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland. The supply and manufacture of a number of components is performed by sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration in the available sources of supply of materials and products is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies. Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact the Companys net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often, channel inventory of a particular product declines as the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of the Companys future pattern of product introductions, future net sales or financial performance. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 6 Warranty The Company offers a limited parts and labor warranty on its hardware products. The basic warranty period is typically one year from the date of purchase by the original end-user. The Company also offers a 90-day limited warranty on the service parts used to repair the Companys hardware products. In certain jurisdictions, local law requires that manufacturers guarantee their products for a period prescribed by statute, typically at least two years. In addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP or AC+, which extends service coverage on many of the Companys hardware products. Backlog In the Companys experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases immediately following new product introductions as customers anticipate shortages. Backlog is often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Companys ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Employees As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had approximately 123,000 full-time equivalent employees. Available Infor mation The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and files or furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on the Companys website at investor.apple.com/sec.cfm when such reports are available on the SECs website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Companys references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the Companys actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Companys operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values and/or other factors. These worldwide and regional economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Companys products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Companys expectations as a result of currency fluctuations because the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside the U.S. to correspond with the effect of a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Other factors that could influence worldwide or regional demand include changes in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Companys products and services. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on the Companys business, including the insolvency or financial instability of outsourcing partners or suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products, resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Companys products; failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; and restrictions on the Companys ability to issue new debt. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; changes in interest rates; increases or decreases in cash balances; volatility in foreign exchange rates; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Companys financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Global markets for the Companys products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The Companys products and services compete in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. The Companys ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in R&D. The Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. In contrast, many of the Companys competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Companys products and infringing on its intellectual property. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if competitors infringe on the Companys intellectual property, the Companys ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be adversely affected. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 8 The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based on the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related services, including third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships; and the Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone market. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition as competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt to imitate the Companys product features and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company competes with business models that provide content to users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. Some of the Companys competitors have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and/or experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Companys approach to providing components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. The Companys financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Companys ability to continually improve iOS and iOS devices in order to maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company is the only authorized maker of hardware using macOS, which has a minority market share in the personal computer market. This market has been contracting and is dominated by computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. In the market for personal computers and accessories, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower-priced products and a larger installed customer base. Historically, consolidation in this market has resulted in larger competitors. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. An increasing number of internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Companys existing products. The Companys financial condition and operating results also depend on its ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain its functional and design advantages. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and successfully manage the transition to these new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with new product production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or deficiencies in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions. The Company depends on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, national and regional retailers and value-added resellers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and third-party products in most of its major markets directly to education, enterprise and government customers and consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores. Some carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone subsidize users purchases of the device. There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Companys agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. The financial condition of these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Companys products, or uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the Companys products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 9 The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its provisions related to inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods up to 150 days . Because the Companys markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain components in sufficient quantities on commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. A number of suppliers of components may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead to business failure for the supplier or consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the Companys ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on commercially reasonable terms. The effects of global or regional economic conditions on the Companys suppliers, described in Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company above, also could affect the Companys ability to obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases. The Companys new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected for any number of reasons, including if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Companys requirements. The supply of components for a new or existing product could be delayed or constrained, or a key manufacturing vendor could delay shipments of completed products to the Company. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Companys manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by a few outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Companys flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect or warranty liability. While the Company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, material violations of the supplier code of conduct could occur. The Company relies on sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe to supply and manufacture many critical components, and on outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia, for final assembly of substantially all of the Companys hardware products. Any failure of these partners to perform may have a negative impact on the Companys cost or supply of components or finished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations or transit to final destinations may be disrupted for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. The Company has invested in manufacturing process equipment, much of which is held at certain of its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply of components and finished goods, if these outsourcing partners or suppliers experience severe financial problems or other disruptions in their business, such continued supply could be reduced or terminated and the net realizable value of these assets could be negatively impacted. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 10 The Companys products and services may experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin and harm to the Companys reputation. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with the softwares intended operation. The Companys online services may from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses and harm to the Companys reputation. The Company relies on access to third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content to customers. This includes the right to sell currently available music, movies, TV shows and books. The licensing or other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Companys access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach. Failure to obtain the right to make third-party digital content available, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions. If requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company to license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Companys content providers. The Companys future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Companys products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Companys products, customers may choose not to buy the Companys products. With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part on the developers perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software for the Companys products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of Mac sales and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Companys minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Macs prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Companys Mac products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect to iOS devices, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications, including applications distributed through the App Store. iOS devices are subject to rapid technological change, and, if third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result in dissatisfied customers. As with applications for the Companys Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining or upgrading software for the Companys iOS devices rather than its competitors platforms, such as Android. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Companys iOS devices may suffer. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 11 The Company relies on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of the Companys products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based on past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally can be obtained on reasonable terms. There is, however, no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The Company could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings, such as being found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new claims may arise in the future. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. Claims against the Company based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights have generally increased over time and may continue to increase. In particular, the Company has historically faced a significant number of patent claims relating to its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise in the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in a number of U.S. jurisdictions and before the U.S. International Trade Commission, as well as internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Companys operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into licensing agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such disputes. No assurance can be given that such agreements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These agreements may also significantly increase the Companys operating expenses. In managements opinion, there is not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies, including matters related to infringement of intellectual property rights. However, the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. Although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. The Company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase the Companys costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect the Companys business. The Company is subject to laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations in a number of areas. These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Companys activities including, but not limited to, in areas of labor, advertising, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. By way of example, laws and regulations related to mobile communications and media devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions on the production, manufacture, distribution and use of devices, locking devices to a carriers network, or mandating the use of devices on more than one carriers network. These devices are also subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications, or delays in product shipment dates, or could preclude the Company from selling certain products. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 12 Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make the Companys products and services less attractive to the Companys customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause the Company to change or limit its business practices. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Companys employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Companys policies and procedures. The Companys business is subject to the risks of international operations. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by the Companys employees, contractors or agents could nevertheless occur. In some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country. Violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the Companys brand, international growth efforts and business. The Company also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs and political instability. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company is also exposed to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables with customers in certain international markets. There can be no assurance the Company can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Companys retail stores have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The Companys retail stores have required substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Companys more typical retail stores. Due to the high cost structure associated with the Companys retail stores, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Companys control, pose risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, macro-economic factors that could have an adverse effect on general retail activity, as well as the Companys inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, the Companys failure to manage relationships with its existing retail partners, more challenging environments in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and the Companys inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Companys ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return of capital and unidentified issues not discovered in the Companys due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. The Companys business and reputation may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. The Company may be subject to information technology system failures or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Companys business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could adversely impact the Companys business by, among other things, preventing access to the Companys online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Companys products. These events could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 13 There may be losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, that could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Companys business requires it to use and store confidential information, including, among other things, personally identifiable information (PII) with respect to the Companys customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources to network and data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measures intended to protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may still occur, which could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. The Companys business also requires it to share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not be effective and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may still occur, which could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Company may experience a security breach impacting the Companys information technology systems that compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability of confidential information. Such an incident could, among other things, impair the Companys ability to attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Companys stock price, materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, which could result in penalties, fines or judgments against the Company. Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including PII, affect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended to secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, including through the use of encryption and authentication technologies. As with all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and may be vulnerable to hacking, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access the Companys information technology systems. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, may result in the delay or loss of customer orders or impede customer access to the Companys products and services. In addition to the risks relating to general confidential information described above, the Company may also be subject to specific obligations relating to health data and payment card data. Health data may be subject to additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company may be subject to audit by governmental authorities regarding the Companys compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, or if health data is handled in a manner not permitted by law or under the Companys agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company could be subject to litigation or government investigations, may be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and could also incur significant fees or fines. Under payment card rules and obligations, if cardholder information is potentially compromised, the Company could be liable for associated investigatory expenses and could also incur significant fees or fines if the Company fails to follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. The Companys business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of PII. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also may restrict transfers of PII among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company to incur substantial costs or require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure of PII through its privacy policy, information provided on its website and press statements. Any failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. In addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 14 The Companys success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of the Companys future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Companys key personnel are located. The Companys business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Companys business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Companys products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Companys supply chain. While the Companys suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur and could result in disruption to the Companys business and harm to the Companys reputation. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be adversely affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products and disruptions in the operations of the Companys manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Companys R&D activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. The Companys profit margins vary across its products and distribution channels. The Companys software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Companys other products. Gross margins on the Companys hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Companys direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Companys gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, component cost increases, the strengthening U.S. dollar, price competition, or the introduction of new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates a majority of its net sales from a single product and a decline in demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Companys products, issues with new product introductions, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Companys logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners. The Companys stock price is subject to volatility. The Companys stock price has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies operating performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its own stock to exceed the stocks price at a given point in time. The Company believes its stock price should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Companys Board of Directors, and the Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases or other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 15 The Companys financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. The Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Companys products. Margins on sales of the Companys products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the dollars strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Companys foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Companys cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing of the Companys investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant realized losses. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. The Company also sells its products directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party financing arrangements or credit insurance. The Companys exposure to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 30, 2017 , a significant portion of the Companys trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of the Companys subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The Companys effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Ireland. The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the Companys effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Ireland, or if the ultimate determination of the Companys taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Companys financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 16 Item 2. Properties The Companys headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company owned 13.4 million square feet and leased 23.0 million square feet of building space, primarily in the U.S. Additionally, the Company owned a total of 4,928 acres of land, primarily in the U.S. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company owned facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D and data centers at various locations throughout the U.S. Outside the U.S., the Company owned additional facilities and land for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used by all operating segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. The Company has invested in internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues to make investments in capital equipment as needed to meet anticipated demand for its products. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. See the risk factor The Company could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings, such as being found to have infringed on intellectual property rights in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2017 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (Nasdaq) under the symbol AAPL. Price Range of Common Stock The price range per share of common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest intraday sales prices for the Companys common stock on the Nasdaq during each quarter of the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter 2017 price range per share $164.94 $142.41 $156.65 $140.06 $144.50 $114.76 $118.69 $104.08 2016 price range per share $116.18 $91.50 $112.39 $89.47 $109.43 $92.39 $123.82 $105.57 Holders As of October 20, 2017 , there were 25,333 shareholders of record. Dividends The Company paid a total of $12.6 billion and $12.0 billion in dividends during 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and expects to pay quarterly dividends of $0.63 per common share each quarter, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. The Company also plans to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 18 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September 30, 2017 was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) July 2, 2017 to August 5, 2017: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 10,076 $ 148.87 10,076 August 6, 2017 to September 2, 2017: May 2017 ASR 4,510 (2) 4,510 August 2017 ASR 15,069 (3) (3) 15,069 (3) Open market and privately negotiated purchases 9,684 $ 160.06 9,684 September 3, 2017 to September 30, 2017: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 9,313 $ 155.69 9,313 Total 48,652 $ 44,023 (1) In May 2017 , the Companys Board of Directors increased the Companys share repurchase authorization from $175 billion to $210 billion of the Companys common stock, of which $166 billion had been utilized as of September 30, 2017 . The remaining $44 billion in the table represents the amount available to repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program as of September 30, 2017 . The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. (2) In May 2017, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase arrangement (ASR) to purchase up to $3.0 billion of the Companys common stock. In August 2017, the purchase period for this ASR ended and an additional 4.5 million shares were delivered and retired. In total, 20.1 million shares were delivered under this ASR at an average repurchase price of $149.20 . (3) In August 2017, the Company entered into a new ASR to purchase up to $3.0 billion of the Companys common stock. In exchange for an up-front payment of $3.0 billion , the financial institution party to the arrangement committed to deliver shares to the Company during the ASRs purchase period, which will end in November 2017 . The total number of shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average price paid per share, will be determined at the end of the applicable purchase period based on the volume-weighted average price of the Companys common stock during that period. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 19 Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September 30, 2017 . The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index as of the market close on September 28, 2012. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. * $100 invested on 9/28/12 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Data points are the last day of each fiscal year for the Companys common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright 2017 S&P, a division of McGraw Hill Financial. All rights reserved. Copyright 2017 Dow Jones & Co. All rights reserved. September 2012 September 2013 September 2014 September 2015 September 2016 September 2017 Apple Inc. $ 100 $ 74 $ 111 $ 128 $ 129 $ 179 S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 119 $ 143 $ 142 $ 164 $ 194 S&P Information Technology Index $ 100 $ 107 $ 138 $ 141 $ 173 $ 223 Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index $ 100 $ 105 $ 137 $ 137 $ 167 $ 214 Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September 30, 2017 , is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts). 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales $ 229,234 $ 215,639 $ 233,715 $ 182,795 $ 170,910 Net income $ 48,351 $ 45,687 $ 53,394 $ 39,510 $ 37,037 Earnings per share: Basic $ 9.27 $ 8.35 $ 9.28 $ 6.49 $ 5.72 Diluted $ 9.21 $ 8.31 $ 9.22 $ 6.45 $ 5.68 Cash dividends declared per share $ 2.40 $ 2.18 $ 1.98 $ 1.82 $ 1.64 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 5,217,242 5,470,820 5,753,421 6,085,572 6,477,320 Diluted 5,251,692 5,500,281 5,793,069 6,122,663 6,521,634 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 268,895 $ 237,585 $ 205,666 $ 155,239 $ 146,761 Total assets $ 375,319 $ 321,686 $ 290,345 $ 231,839 $ 207,000 Commercial paper $ 11,977 $ 8,105 $ 8,499 $ 6,308 $ Total term debt (1) $ 103,703 $ 78,927 $ 55,829 $ 28,987 $ 16,960 Other long-term obligations (2) $ 40,415 $ 36,074 $ 33,427 $ 24,826 $ 20,208 Total liabilities $ 241,272 $ 193,437 $ 170,990 $ 120,292 $ 83,451 Total shareholders equity $ 134,047 $ 128,249 $ 119,355 $ 111,547 $ 123,549 (1) Includes current and long-term portion of term debt. (2) Excludes non-current deferred revenue. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 21 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the Company and Apple as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Overview and Highlights The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple TV, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively Digital Content and Services). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. Fiscal Period The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Companys fiscal year 2017 included 53 weeks and ended on September 30, 2017 . A 14th week was included in the first quarter of 2017, as is done every five or six years, to realign the Companys fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The Companys fiscal years 2016 and 2015 ended on September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 , respectively, and spanned 52 weeks each. Fiscal 2017 Highlights Net sales increased 6% or $13.6 billion during 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by growth in Services, iPhone and Mac. The year-over-year increase in net sales reflected growth in each of the geographic operating segments, with the exception of Greater China. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. In May 2017, the Company announced an increase to its capital return program by raising the expected total size of the program from $250 billion to $300 billion through March 2019. This included increasing its share repurchase authorization from $175 billion to $210 billion and raising its quarterly dividend from $0.57 to $0.63 per share beginning in May 2017. During 2017, the Company spent $33.0 billion to repurchase shares of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $12.8 billion . Additionally, the Company issued $24.0 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated term debt, 2.5 billion of euro-denominated term debt and C$2.5 billion of Canadian dollar-denominated term debt during 2017. Fiscal 2016 Highlights Net sales declined 8% or $18.1 billion during 2016 compared to 2015, primarily driven by a year-over-year decrease in iPhone net sales and the effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an increase in Services. In April 2016, the Company announced an increase to its capital return program by raising the expected total size of the program from $200 billion to $250 billion through March 2018. This included increasing its share repurchase authorization from $140 billion to $175 billion and raising its quarterly dividend from $0.52 to $0.57 per share beginning in May 2016. During 2016, the Company spent $29.0 billion to repurchase shares of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $12.2 billion. Additionally, the Company issued $23.9 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated term debt and A$1.4 billion of Australian dollar-denominated term debt during 2016. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 22 Sales Data The following table shows net sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net Sales by Operating Segment: Americas $ 96,600 12 % $ 86,613 (8 )% $ 93,864 Europe 54,938 10 % 49,952 (1 )% 50,337 Greater China 44,764 (8 )% 48,492 (17 )% 58,715 Japan 17,733 5 % 16,928 8 % 15,706 Rest of Asia Pacific 15,199 11 % 13,654 (10 )% 15,093 Total net sales $ 229,234 6 % $ 215,639 (8 )% $ 233,715 Net Sales by Product: iPhone (1) $ 141,319 3 % $ 136,700 (12 )% $ 155,041 iPad (1) 19,222 (7 )% 20,628 (11 )% 23,227 Mac (1) 25,850 13 % 22,831 (10 )% 25,471 Services (2) 29,980 23 % 24,348 22 % 19,909 Other Products (1)(3) 12,863 16 % 11,132 11 % 10,067 Total net sales $ 229,234 6 % $ 215,639 (8 )% $ 233,715 Unit Sales by Product: iPhone 216,756 2 % 211,884 (8 )% 231,218 iPad 43,753 (4 )% 45,590 (17 )% 54,856 Mac 19,251 4 % 18,484 (10 )% 20,587 (1) Includes deferrals and amortization of related software upgrade rights and non-software services. (2) Includes revenue from Digital Content and Services, AppleCare, Apple Pay, licensing and other services. Services net sales in the fourth quarter of 2017 included a favorable one-time adjustment of $640 million due to a change in estimate based on the availability of additional supporting information. (3) Includes sales of Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 23 Product Performance iPhone The following table presents iPhone net sales and unit sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 141,319 3 % $ 136,700 (12 )% $ 155,041 Percentage of total net sales 62 % 63 % 66 % Unit sales 216,756 2 % 211,884 (8 )% 231,218 iPhone net sales increased during 2017 compared to 2016 due to higher iPhone unit sales and a different mix of iPhones with higher average selling prices. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on iPhone net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. iPhone net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015. The Company believes the sales decline was due primarily to a lower rate of iPhone upgrades during 2016 compared to 2015 and challenging macroeconomic conditions in a number of major markets in 2016. Average selling prices for iPhone were lower year-over-year during 2016 due primarily to a different mix of iPhones, including the iPhone SE introduced in 2016, and the effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. iPad The following table presents iPad net sales and unit sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 19,222 (7 )% $ 20,628 (11 )% $ 23,227 Percentage of total net sales 8 % 10 % 10 % Unit sales 43,753 (4 )% 45,590 (17 )% 54,856 iPad net sales decreased during 2017 compared to 2016 due to lower iPad unit sales and a different mix of iPads with lower average selling prices. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on iPad net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. iPad net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to lower unit sales and the effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher average selling price due to a shift in mix to higher-priced iPads. Mac The following table presents Mac net sales and unit sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions and units in thousands): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 25,850 13 % $ 22,831 (10 )% $ 25,471 Percentage of total net sales 11 % 11 % 11 % Unit sales 19,251 4 % 18,484 (10 )% 20,587 Mac net sales increased during 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to a different mix of Macs with higher average selling prices and higher Mac unit sales. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Mac net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. Mac net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to lower year-over-year Mac unit sales, which declined at rates similar to the overall market. The effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar also negatively impacted Mac net sales. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 24 Services The following table presents Services net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 29,980 23 % $ 24,348 22 % $ 19,909 Percentage of total net sales 13 % 11 % 9 % The year-over-year growth in Services net sales in 2017 was due primarily to increases in App Store and licensing sales. Services net sales in the fourth quarter of 2017 included a favorable one-time adjustment of $640 million due to a change in estimate based on the availability of additional supporting information. The year-over-year increase in Services net sales in 2016 was due primarily to growth from the App Store, licensing and AppleCare sales, partially offset by the effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company received $548 million from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. related to its patent infringement lawsuit, which was recorded as licensing net sales within Services. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Companys other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Companys customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Companys reportable segments can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, Segment Information and Geographic Data. Americas The following table presents Americas net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 96,600 12 % $ 86,613 (8 )% $ 93,864 Percentage of total net sales 42 % 40 % 40 % Americas net sales increased during 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. Americas net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone. Europe The following table presents Europe net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 54,938 10 % $ 49,952 (1 )% $ 50,337 Percentage of total net sales 24 % 23 % 22 % Europe net sales increased during 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Europe net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. Europe net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 driven primarily by the effect of weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and a decrease in net sales of Mac, largely offset by an increase in iPhone unit sales and Services. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 25 Greater China The following table presents Greater China net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 44,764 (8 )% $ 48,492 (17 )% $ 58,715 Percentage of total net sales 20 % 22 % 25 % Greater China net sales decreased during 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone, partially offset by higher net sales of Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Greater China net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. Greater China net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone and the effect of weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Japan The following table presents Japan net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 17,733 5 % $ 16,928 8 % $ 15,706 Percentage of total net sales 8 % 8 % 7 % The year-over-year increase in Japan net sales in 2017 and 2016 was due primarily to higher net sales of Services and the strength in the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Rest of Asia Pacific The following table presents Rest of Asia Pacific net sales information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Net sales $ 15,199 11 % $ 13,654 (10 )% $ 15,093 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 6 % 6 % Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. The strength in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2017 compared to 2016. Rest of Asia Pacific net sales decreased during 2016 compared to 2015 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone and the effect of weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Gross Margin Gross margin for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was as follows (dollars in millions): 2017 2016 2015 Net sales $ 229,234 $ 215,639 $ 233,715 Cost of sales 141,048 131,376 140,089 Gross margin $ 88,186 $ 84,263 $ 93,626 Gross margin percentage 38.5 % 39.1 % 40.1 % Gross margin percentage decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 due primarily to higher product costs, partially offset by a favorable shift in mix to services. Year-over-year gross margin increased due primarily to a shift in mix to services and an overall increase in product volumes. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on gross margin percentage and gross margin during 2017 compared to 2016. Gross margin percentage decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 due primarily to the effect of weakness in most foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, unfavorable leverage on fixed costs from lower net sales, partially offset by a favorable shift in mix to services. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 26 The Company anticipates gross margin percentage during the first quarter of 2018 to be between 38.0% and 38.5%. The foregoing statement regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2018 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results. The Companys future gross margins can be impacted by multiple factors including, but not limited to, those set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors and those described in this paragraph. In general, the Company believes gross margins will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions, potential increases in the cost of components, and potential strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, its financial condition and operating results, including gross margins, could be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Research and development $ 11,581 15 % $ 10,045 25 % $ 8,067 Percentage of total net sales 5 % 5 % 3 % Selling, general and administrative $ 15,261 8 % $ 14,194 (1 )% $ 14,329 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 7 % 6 % Total operating expenses $ 26,842 11 % $ 24,239 8 % $ 22,396 Percentage of total net sales 12 % 11 % 10 % Research and Development The year-over-year growth in R&D expense in 2017 and 2016 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses and material costs to support expanded R&D activities. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace, and to the development of new and updated products and services that are central to the Companys core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth in selling, general and administrative expense in 2017 compared to 2016 was driven primarily by an increase in headcount-related expenses, variable selling expenses and infrastructure-related costs. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was due primarily to lower discretionary expenditures and advertising costs, partially offset by an increase in headcount-related expenses. Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was as follows (dollars in millions): 2017 Change 2016 Change 2015 Interest and dividend income $ 5,201 $ 3,999 $ 2,921 Interest expense (2,323 ) (1,456 ) (733 ) Other expense, net (133 ) (1,195 ) (903 ) Total other income/(expense), net $ 2,745 104 % $ 1,348 5 % $ 1,285 The year-over-year increase in other income/(expense), net during 2017 was due primarily to higher interest income and the favorable impact of foreign exchange-related items, partially offset by higher interest expense on debt. The year-over-year increase in other income/(expense), net during 2016 was due primarily to higher interest income, partially offset by higher interest expense on debt and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange-related items. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 1.99%, 1.73% and 1.49% in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 27 Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2017 2016 2015 Provision for income taxes $ 15,738 $ 15,685 $ 19,121 Effective tax rate 24.6 % 25.6 % 26.4 % The Companys effective tax rates for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 differ from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings, a substantial portion of which was generated by subsidiaries organized in Ireland, for which no U.S. taxes are provided when such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The lower effective tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was due to a different geographic mix of earnings and higher U.S. R&D tax credits. The lower effective tax rate in 2016 compared to 2015 was due primarily to greater R&D tax credits. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses and tax credits of $3.9 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $31.5 billion . Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for and the amount of a valuation allowance. The IRS concluded its review of the years 2010 through 2012 during the third quarter of 2017. All years prior to 2013 are closed, and the IRS is currently examining the years 2013 through 2015. The Company is also subject to audits by state, local and foreign tax authorities. In major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent to 2003 generally remain open and could be subject to examination by the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company (the State Aid Decision). The State Aid Decision orders Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision to be without merit and appealed to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. Although Ireland is still computing the recovery amount, the Company expects the amount to be in line with the European Commissions announced recovery amount of 13 billion , plus interest of 1 billion . Once the recovery amount is finalized by Ireland, the Company anticipates funding it, including interest, out of foreign cash. These amounts are expected to be placed into escrow in 2018, where they will remain pending conclusion of all appeals. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related to the State Aid Decision would be creditable against U.S. taxes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Hedging In August 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (ASU 2017-12). ASU 2017-12 expands component and fair value hedging, specifies the presentation of the effects of hedging instruments, and eliminates the separate measurement and presentation of hedge ineffectiveness. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-12 in its first quarter of 2020 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method and is currently evaluating the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. Restricted Cash In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash (ASU 2016-18), which enhances and clarifies the guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-18 in its first quarter of 2019 utilizing the retrospective transition method. Currently, the Companys restricted cash balance is not significant. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 28 Income Taxes In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16), which requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-16 in its first quarter of 2019 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Currently, the Company anticipates recording up to $9 billion of net deferred tax assets on its Consolidated Balance Sheets upon adoption. However, the ultimate impact of adopting ASU 2016-16 will depend on the balance of intellectual property transferred between its subsidiaries as of the adoption date. The Company will recognize incremental deferred income tax expense thereafter as these deferred tax assets are utilized. Stock Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09), which modifies certain aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income taxes, classification of awards, and classification in the statement of cash flows. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-09 in its first quarter of 2018. Currently, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from the Companys equity awards are recorded as additional paid-in capital in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon adoption, the Company will record any excess tax benefits or deficiencies from its equity awards in its Consolidated Statements of Operations in the reporting periods in which vesting occurs. As a result, subsequent to adoption the Companys income tax expense and associated effective tax rate will be impacted by fluctuations in stock price between the grant dates and vesting dates of equity awards. Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in its first quarter of 2020 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. While the Company is currently evaluating the timing and impact of adopting ASU 2016-02, currently the Company anticipates recording lease assets and liabilities in excess of $9.5 billion on its Consolidated Balance Sheets, with no material impact to its Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, the ultimate impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 will depend on the Companys lease portfolio as of the adoption date. Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-01 in its first quarter of 2019 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based on the composition of the Companys investment portfolio, the adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13), which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-13 in its first quarter of 2021 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based on the composition of the Companys investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers. Subsequently, the FASB has issued the following standards related to ASU 2014-09: ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (ASU 2016-08); ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing (ASU 2016-10); ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients (ASU 2016-12); and ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2016-20). The Company must adopt ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20 with ASU 2014-09 (collectively, the new revenue standards). The new revenue standards may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company will adopt the new revenue standards in its first quarter of 2019 utilizing the full retrospective transition method. The new revenue standards are not expected to have a material impact on the amount and timing of revenue recognized in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 29 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of and for the years ended September 30, 2017 , September 24, 2016 and September 26, 2015 (in millions): 2017 2016 2015 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 268,895 $ 237,585 $ 205,666 Property, plant and equipment, net $ 33,783 $ 27,010 $ 22,471 Commercial paper $ 11,977 $ 8,105 $ 8,499 Total term debt $ 103,703 $ 78,927 $ 55,829 Working capital $ 27,831 $ 27,863 $ 8,768 Cash generated by operating activities $ 63,598 $ 65,824 $ 81,266 Cash used in investing activities $ (46,446 ) $ (45,977 ) $ (56,274 ) Cash used in financing activities $ (17,347 ) $ (20,483 ) $ (17,716 ) The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. The Company currently anticipates the cash used for future dividends, the share repurchase program and debt repayments will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing U.S. operating activities and from borrowings. As of September 30, 2017 and September 24, 2016 , the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $252.3 billion and $216.0 billion , respectively, and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. In connection with the State Aid Decision, Ireland is still computing the recovery amount. The Company expects the amount to be in line with the European Commissions announced recovery amount of 13 billion , plus interest of 1 billion . Once the recovery amount is finalized by Ireland, the Company anticipates funding it, including interest, out of foreign cash. These amounts are expected to be placed into escrow in 2018, where they will remain pending conclusion of all appeals. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The policy generally requires investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. During 2017 , cash generated by operating activities of $63.6 billion was a result of $48.4 billion of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $20.8 billion and a decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $5.6 billion , which included a one-time payment of $1.9 billion related to a multi-year license agreement. Cash used in investing activities of $46.4 billion during 2017 consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, of $33.1 billion and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $12.5 billion . Cash used in financing activities of $17.3 billion during 2017 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $32.9 billion , cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $12.8 billion and cash used to repay term debt of $3.5 billion , partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of term debt, net of $28.7 billion and proceeds from commercial paper, net of $3.9 billion . During 2016 , cash generated by operating activities of $65.8 billion was a result of $45.7 billion of net income and non-cash adjustments to net income of $20.1 billion . Cash used in investing activities of $46.0 billion during 2016 consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, of $30.6 billion and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $12.7 billion . Cash used in financing activities of $20.5 billion during 2016 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $29.7 billion , cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $12.2 billion and cash used to repay term debt of $2.5 billion , partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of term debt, net of $25.0 billion . Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $14.9 billion during 2017 . The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $16.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2018 , which includes product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities. Debt The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper) pursuant to a commercial paper program. The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had $12.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 1.20% and maturities generally less than nine months . Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 30 As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $104.0 billion (collectively the Notes). During 2017 , the Company repaid $3.5 billion of its Notes upon maturity. The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on the Notes. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps to manage foreign currency risk on the Notes. The future principal payments for the Companys Notes as of September 30, 2017 are as follows (in millions): 2018 $ 6,500 2019 8,863 2020 9,220 2021 7,750 2022 10,297 Thereafter 61,391 Total term debt $ 104,021 Further information regarding the Companys debt issuances and related hedging activity can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 2, Financial Instruments and Note 6, Debt. Capital Return Program In May 2017 , the Companys Board of Directors increased the total capital return program from $250 billion to $300 billion , which included an increase in the share repurchase authorization from $175 billion to $210 billion of the Companys common stock. Additionally, the Company announced that the Board of Directors raised the Companys quarterly cash dividend from $0.57 to $0.63 per share, beginning with the dividend paid during the third quarter of 2017. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. As of September 30, 2017 , $166 billion of the share repurchase program had been utilized. The Companys share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The following table presents the Companys dividends, dividend equivalents, share repurchases and net share settlement activity from the start of the capital return program in August 2012 through September 30, 2017 (in millions): Dividends and Dividend Equivalents Paid Accelerated Share Repurchases Open Market Share Repurchases Taxes Related to Settlement of Equity Awards Total 2017 $ 12,769 $ 15,000 $ 18,001 $ 1,874 $ 47,644 2016 12,150 12,000 17,000 1,570 42,720 2015 11,561 6,000 30,026 1,499 49,086 2014 11,126 21,000 24,000 1,158 57,284 2013 10,564 13,950 9,000 1,082 34,596 2012 2,488 56 2,544 Total $ 60,658 $ 67,950 $ 98,027 $ 7,239 $ 233,874 The Company expects to execute its capital return program by the end of March 2019 by paying dividends and dividend equivalents, repurchasing shares and remitting withheld taxes related to net share settlement of restricted stock units. The Company plans to continue to access the domestic and international debt markets to assist in funding its capital return program. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to the Company, or engages in leasing, hedging, or R&D services with the Company. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 31 The following table presents certain payments due by the Company as of September 30, 2017 , and excludes amounts already recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for term debt (in millions): Payments Due in Less Than 1 Year Payments Due in 1-3 Years Payments Due in 4-5 Years Payments Due in More Than 5 Years Total Term debt $ 6,500 $ 18,083 $ 18,047 $ 61,391 $ 104,021 Operating leases 1,223 2,295 1,904 4,123 9,545 Manufacturing purchase obligations (1) 32,787 2,632 2,147 37,566 Other purchase obligations 4,019 1,669 417 14 6,119 Total $ 44,529 $ 24,679 $ 22,515 $ 65,528 $ 157,251 (1) Represents amount expected to be paid under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, substantially all of which is noncancelable. Operating Leases As of September 30, 2017 , the Companys total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $9.5 billion . The Companys retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days . The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company expects to pay $37.6 billion under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, substantially all of which is noncancelable. Other Purchase Obligations The Companys other purchase obligations consisted of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related to advertising, licensing, R&D, internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had other purchase obligations of $6.1 billion . The Companys other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily of deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. As of September 30, 2017 , the Company had deferred tax liabilities of $31.5 billion , gross unrecognized tax benefits of $8.4 billion and an additional $1.2 billion for gross interest and penalties. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification Agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to indemnification of third parties. The Company offers an iPhone Upgrade Program, which is available to customers who purchase a qualifying iPhone in the U.S., the U.K. and mainland China. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right to trade in that iPhone for a specified amount when purchasing a new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade-in right as a guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net of the fair value of such right, with subsequent changes to the guarantee liability recognized within revenue. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers of the Company and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 32 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of marketable securities, inventory valuation, valuation of manufacturing-related assets and estimation of purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title, risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. For payment terms in excess of the Companys standard payment terms, revenue is recognized as payments become due unless the Company has positive evidence that the sales price is fixed or determinable, such as a successful history of collection, without concession, on comparable arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products, software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry-specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential to the hardware products functionality, undelivered software elements that relate to the hardware products essential software and/or undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For sales of qualifying versions of iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV, the Company has indicated it may from time to time provide future unspecified software upgrades to the devices essential software and/or non-software services free of charge. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the unspecified software upgrade rights or the non-software services, revenue is allocated to these rights and services based on the Companys ESPs. Revenue allocated to the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services based on the Companys ESPs is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided. The Companys process for determining ESPs involves managements judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Companys ESPs and the future rate of related amortization for unspecified software upgrades and non-software services related to future sales of these devices could change. Factors subject to change include the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services offered, the estimated value of unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services and the estimated period unspecified software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 33 The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For the Companys other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs that could result in reductions to future revenue. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeems such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have an adverse impact on the Companys operating results. Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities impact the Companys net income only when such securities are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this determination, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost; the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment of whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security, which would have an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Inventory Valuation, Valuation of Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimation of Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company must purchase components and build inventory in advance of product shipments and has invested in manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers facilities. In addition, the Company has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a regular review of inventory that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels and component cost trends. The Company also reviews its manufacturing-related capital assets and inventory prepayments for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that an asset is not recoverable, it records an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of such an asset exceeds its fair value. The industries in which the Company competes are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. In certain circumstances the Company may be required to record additional write-downs of inventory and/or impairments of manufacturing-related assets or inventory prepayments. These circumstances include future demand or market conditions for the Companys products being less favorable than forecasted, unforeseen technological changes or changes to the Companys product development plans that negatively impact the utility of any of these assets, or significant deterioration in the financial condition of one or more of the Companys suppliers that hold any of the Companys manufacturing-related assets or to whom the Company has made an inventory prepayment. Such write-downs would adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results in the period when the additional write-downs were recorded. The Company accrues for estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees related to inventory orders that have been canceled or are expected to be canceled. Manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods up to 150 days . If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products, a change in the Companys product development plans, or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would adversely affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees were identified and recorded. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 34 Warranty Costs The Company accrues for the estimated cost of warranties in the period the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. The Company regularly reviews these estimates and the current installed base of products subject to warranty protection to assess the appropriateness of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities could be required and could materially affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of its reported operating results. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the Companys deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of its net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will record an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant judgment. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | 2017 Form 10-K | 35