Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Income Taxes and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 9 Table of Contents Our People Our commitment to innovation begins with the commitment to creating an environment in which our employees can do their best work. Our ability to create differentiated value in the marketplace is driven by the capability of our people to anticipate technology inflections and integrate customer requirements. To achieve this level of value creation, we believe we must continue to attract, hire, develop and retain a world-class global workforce. We invest in our employees by providing quality training and learning opportunities, a compelling career path, promoting inclusion, equity and diversity, and upholding a high standard of ethics and respect for human rights. As of October 27, 2024, we employed approximately 35,700 regular full-time employees, of whom approximately 45%, 43% and 12% resided in the Asia-Pacific region, North America, and Europe/Middle East, respectively. Our team spans 24 countries, reflecting various cultures, back grounds, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, ages, and disability, veteran and military status. Culture of Inclusion We value great talent and different perspectives, knowing that diversity is one of our greatest strengths. We therefore strive to provide fair and equal opportunity for career development and advancement to all our employees and incorporate respect for diverse backgrounds and perspectives into our culture at every level from strategy and policy down to everyday interactions. We expect that our commitment to strengthening our culture of inclusion will broaden the diversity of our workplace and help us build a culture that benefits everyone. In recent years, we continued to make progress in our culture of inclusion journey, including, among other things, increasing female representation in the United States and global workforce, and increasing minority representation in the United States. As of October 27, 2024, our global workforce was 79.2% male and 20.6% female, and 19.8% of our workforce in the United States was composed of underrepresented minorities. Talent Acquisition and Retention We believe that our future success is highly dependent upon our continued ability to attract, develop, retain and engage employees. As part of our effort to attract and retain employees, we offer competitive rewards, compensation and benefits, including an Employee Stock Incentive Plan, an Employees Stock Purchase Plan, healthcare and retirement benefits, parental and family leave, adoption credits, holiday and paid time off, and tuition assistance. Employee Learning & Development We seek to create growth and development opportunities to support an engaged and inclusive workforce. We promote holistic employee learning and development based on the 70/20/10 model--70% on-the-job learning, 20% social/collaborative and 10% formal training, with a focus on advancing technical skills as well as improving general business acumen to address increasing work complexity. Also, to help expand professional breadth, the segments and functions provide technical and job-specific training tied to their disciplines, while general professional, management, and leadership training is provided at the corporate level. All training is coordinated centrally and aligned with common objectives through Applied Global University. In addition to instructor-led and web-based training, we offer state-of-the-art training modalities, such as AI-based simulations and Augmented and Virtual Reality learning capabilities, to further the development of our new products, train our manufacturing and field support employees, and facilitate remote collaboration. Employee Engagement We have historically measured employee engagement through surveys to gain insight into employees experiences, levels of workplace satisfaction, and key drivers for engagement, inclusion and overall well-being. We plan to conduct an all-employee survey anonymously in fiscal 2025 through an external partner to encourage maximal participation and elicit candid responses. We also plan to benchmark the survey results against a large and standardized data set involving large technology companies globally. We expect that the survey results and the benchmarking data will allow us to better understand enterprise-wide trends, gauge effectiveness of interventions, and define targeted employee populations (e.g., early tenure employees). The survey results are also expected to provide leaders and people managers with actionable insights tailored to their own groups that can further enhance employee engagement and inclusion. These actionable insights will then be integrated with the people strategy process and cadence within the Company. Additional information regarding our activities related to our people and sustainability, as well as our workforce diversity data, can be found in our latest Sustainability Report, which is located on our website at https://www.appliedmaterials.com/us/en/corporate-responsibility.html. The Sustainability Report is updated annually. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, our website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 10 Table of Contents Information about our executive officers The following table and notes set forth information about our executive officers: Name of Individual Position Gary E. Dickerson(1) President, Chief Executive Officer Brice Hill(2) Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Global Information Services Prabu Raja(3) President, Semiconductor Products Group Teri Little(4) Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Omkaram Nalamasu(5) Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Timothy M. Deane(6) Group Vice President, Applied Global Services (1)Mr. Dickerson, age 67, was named President of Applied in June 2012 and appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in September 2013. Before joining Applied, he served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) from 2004 until its acquisition by us in November 2011. Prior to Varian, Mr. Dickerson served 18 years with KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA-Tencor), a supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related industries, where he held a variety of operations and product development roles, including President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Dickerson started his semiconductor career in manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors Delco Electronics Division and then AT&T Technologies. (2)Mr. Hill, age 58, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2022. He also oversees Global Information Services for Applied. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Hill was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Xilinx, Inc., a company that designed and developed programmable devices and associated technologies, from April 2020 until its acquisition by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. in February 2022. Prior to Xilinx, Mr. Hill served in various finance positions with Intel Corporation for 25 years, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Technology, Systems and Core Engineering Group. (3)Dr. Raja, age 62, has been President, Semiconductor Products Group since March 2023. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group of Applied from November 2017 to March 2023, and before that served in various senior management, product development and operational roles since joining Applied in 1995, including Group Vice President and General Manager of the Patterning and Packaging Group. (4)Ms. Little, age 60, joined Applied as Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in June 2020. Prior to joining Applied, Ms. Little served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary at KLA Corporation from August 2017 to June 2020. Prior to that she was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of KLA Corporation from October 2015 until August 2017, and prior to that she held various other positions at KLA Corporation since 2002. Prior to joining KLA Corporation, she was a Senior Corporate Associate at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, and a Litigation Associate at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe. (5)Dr. Nalamasu, age 66, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since June 2013, and President of Applied Ventures, LLC, Applieds venture capital arm, since November 2013. He had served as Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2012 to June 2013, and as Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2011 to January 2012. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 until January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was an Appointed Vice President of Research and served as Deputy Chief Technology Officer and General Manager for the Advanced Technologies Group. From 2002 to 2006, Dr. Nalamasu was a NYSTAR distinguished professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also served as Vice President of Research from 2005 to 2006. Prior to Rensselaer, Dr. Nalamasu served in several leadership roles at Bell Laboratories. (6)Mr. Deane, age 59, has been Group Vice President, Applied Global Services since September 2022. He joined Applied in 1995 and previously served in various senior management and field operations roles, including head of Field Operations and Business Management for the Semiconductor Products Group, Account General Manager and Region General Manager. 11 Table of Contents Available Information Our website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SECs website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are intended to be an inactive textual references only. None of the information on, or accessible through, these websites is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. Business and Industry Risks The industries we serve can be volatile and difficult to predict. We are a supplier to the global semiconductor and display and related industries, which historically have been cyclical and are subject to volatility in customer demand. Factors that impact demand for our products and services include technology inflections and advances in fabrication processes, new and emerging technologies and market drivers, such as demand for high-bandwidth memory and other forms of advanced packaging and technologies related to artificial intelligence and data center computing, production capacity relative to demand for semiconductor chips and electronic devices, end-user demand, customers capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, business and consumer buying patterns and general economic and political conditions. Artificial intelligence is evolving rapidly and is a relatively new demand driver for semiconductors and semiconductor equipment, and it is difficult to accurately forecast such demand. Changes in demand can affect the timing and amounts of customer investments in technology and manufacturing equipment and can significantly impact our operating results. The amount and mix of our customers capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can also significantly impact our operating results. To meet rapidly changing demand, we must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage our resources, investments, production capacity, supply chain, workforce, inventory, and other components of our business. We may incur unexpected or additional costs to align our business operations with changes in demand. If we do not effectively manage these challenges, our business performance and operating results may be adversely impacted. Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, our gross and operating margins, cash flows and earnings may be adversely impacted during periods of changing demand. We are exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy. Uncertain or adverse economic and business conditions, including uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt, fiscal or monetary concerns, inflation and changes in interest rates, bank failures, and economic recession, could materially and adversely impact our operating results. Markets for our semiconductor and display equipment and services depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for semiconductor chips and electronic devices. Uncertain or adverse economic and business conditions could result in decreases in business and consumer spending and demand. Decreases in spending and demand have caused, and may in the future cause, our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from purchasing our equipment or services, which could negatively impact demand for our products and services, reduce our backlog, increase our inventory, and materially and adversely impact our operating results. Increases in demand for semiconductor chips and electronic devices have caused, and may in the future cause, a shortage of parts and materials needed to manufacture our products. Such shortages, and shipment delays due to transportation capacity and interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our suppliers ability to meet our requirements. Accelerated digital transformation may further increase demand and exacerbate shortages and strain our manufacturing capacity, which may adversely impact our ability to meet customer demand and have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Uncertain or adverse economic and market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, increased costs or reduced profitability may cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can result in lower sales, additional inventory or bad debt expense. Economic and industry uncertainty may impair the ability of suppliers to deliver parts and negatively affect our ability to manage operations and deliver products. These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Uncertain economic and industry conditions and supply chain challenges make it more difficult to accurately forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not appropriately manage our business operations it could have a material and adverse impact on our business performance and financial condition. We may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely impact our ability to capitalize on opportunities. Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower demand, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support our customers, which can have a negative impact on our operating results. 13 Table of Contents We maintain an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. The risks to our investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate due to rising inflation, rising interest rates, bank failures or economic recession and the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio and returns on pension assets could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. We also maintain cash balances in various bank accounts globally to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions become insolvent, it could limit our ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect our ability to manage our operations. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. We have product development, engineering, manufacturing, sales and other operations distributed throughout many countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in certain geographic areas. In fiscal 2024, approximately 86% of our net revenue was to customers in regions outside the United States. As a result of the global nature of our operations, our business performance and results of operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: uncertain or adverse global economic, political and business conditions and demand; global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade and export regulations, trade policies and sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes, including new and changing export regulations and their impact on our ability to export products and provide services to customers; positions taken by governmental agencies regarding national, commercial or security issues posed by the development, sale or export of certain products, technologies and raw materials, including critical materials and critical minerals; political instability, social unrest, terrorism, acts of war or other geopolitical turmoil, such as the conflict in the Middle East, in locations where we have operations, suppliers or sales, or that may influence the value chain of the industries we serve; cybersecurity incidents; political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries, including in China, the United States, and countries in Europe and Asia, that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors and reduce dependence on foreign semiconductor equipment and manufacturing capabilities through policies and financial incentives; efforts to influence us to conduct more or less of our operations and sourcing in a particular country; different and changing local, regional, national or international laws and regulations, including contract, intellectual property, cybersecurity, data privacy, labor, tax, and import/export laws, and the interpretation and application of laws and regulations; ineffective or inadequate legal protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries; interruptions to our or our suppliers supply chain; the availability of raw materials, including critical materials and critical minerals, and increases and volatility of commodity, energy and shipping costs; delays or restrictions on personnel travel and in shipping materials or products; geographically diverse operations and projects, and our ability to maintain appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and comply with environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements; challenges in hiring and integrating workers in different countries, and in effectively managing a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, and differing employment practices and labor issues; the ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, Israeli shekel, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Singapore dollar, Chinese yuan or Korean won; the need to provide technical support in different locations around the world; performance of geographically diverse third-party providers, including certain engineering, software development, manufacturing, information technology and other functions; service interruptions from utilities, transportation, data hosting or telecommunications providers; impacts of natural disasters and extreme and chronic weather events on our operations and those of our customers and suppliers, which may be exacerbated by climate change; 14 Table of Contents regional or global health epidemics; the increasing need for a mobile workforce and travel to different regions; and uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries. Global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies and export regulations, including import and export license requirements, trade sanctions, tariffs and international trade disputes, have adversely impacted and could further adversely impact our business and operations, and reduce the competitiveness of our products and services relative to local and global competitors. A majority of our products and services are delivered to customers in jurisdictions outside of the United States, including China, Taiwan, Korea and Japan. We also purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside of the United States. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among the United States and the countries in which we conduct our business, that political, diplomatic, and national security factors can lead to global trade restrictions and changes in trade policies and export regulations that affect the semiconductor industry. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose new trade restrictions and export regulations, have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods, and could significantly increase tariffs on a broad array of goods. Trade restrictions and export regulations, or increases in tariffs and additional taxes, including any retaliatory measures, can negatively impact end-user demand and customer investment in semiconductor equipment, increase our supply chain complexity and our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or restrict our ability to sell products, provide services or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, any or all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. For example, certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses, and our inability to obtain such licenses has limited and could further limit our markets and negatively impact our business. Over the past several years, the U.S. government announced additional export regulations for U.S. semiconductor technology sold in China, including wafer fabrication equipment and related parts and services, with disparate impact on companies in different jurisdictions, which have limited the market for certain of our products and services, adversely impacted our revenues, and increased our exposure to foreign and Chinese domestic competition. The U.S. Department of Commerce has promulgated regulations expanding export license requirements for U.S. companies that sell certain products or provide certain services to entities in China whose actions or functions are intended to support military end uses, eliminated certain export license exceptions that applied to exports of certain items to China, added certain Chinese companies to its Entity List, making those companies subject to additional licensing requirements, and expanded licensing requirements for exports to China of items for use in the development or production of integrated circuits and certain technologies. These regulations require us to obtain additional export licenses to supply certain of our products or provide services to certain customers in China. Obtaining export licenses may be difficult and time-consuming, and there is no assurance we will be issued licenses on a timely basis or at all. Our inability to obtain such licenses could limit our sales in China, may cause us to be displaced by foreign and Chinese domestic companies and adversely affect our results of operations. The implementation and interpretation of these complex rules and other regulatory actions taken by the U.S. government are uncertain and evolving and may make it more challenging for us to manage our operations and forecast our operating results. The U.S. and other governments may promulgate new or additional export licensing or other requirements that have the effect of further limiting our ability to provide certain products and services to customers outside the U.S., including China. The U.S. government may also revise or expand existing requirements or issue guidance clarifying the scope and application of these requirements, which could change the impact of these rules on our business and manufacturing operations. The U.S. government may also continue to add customers to its Entity List or promulgate additional restrictions, or take measures that could disrupt our product shipments or the provision of services to certain customers. These and other potential future regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a global business with customers, suppliers and operations in many countries around the world, from time to time we may receive inquiries from government authorities about transactions between us and certain foreign entities. For example, since 2022, we have received multiple subpoenas from government authorities requesting information relating to certain China customer shipments and export controls compliance, including from the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Commerce Department Bureau of Industry and Security, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We are cooperating fully with the U.S. government in these matters. We have continued to receive related subpoenas, as well as requests for information, and may in the future receive additional related subpoenas and requests for information from such or other government authorities. Any such inquiries are subject to uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries, or any other governmental inquires or proceedings that may occur. Any violation or alleged violation of law or regulations could result in significant legal costs or in legal proceedings in which we or our employees could be subjected to fines and penalties and could result in restrictions on our business and damage to our global brand and reputation, and could have a material and adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, government authorities may take retaliatory actions, impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of sensitive data or intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent a significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. A relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our business. Our customer base is geographically concentrated, particularly in China, Taiwan, Korea and Japan. As a result, the actions of even a single customer or export regulations that apply to customers in certain countries, such as those in China, have exposed and can further expose our business and operating results to greater volatility. The geographic concentration of our customer base could shift over time as a result of changes in technology and competitive landscape, as well as government policy and incentives to develop regional semiconductor industries. The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, including as a result of changes in government policy, have varied and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our operating results. Our products are configured to customer specifications, and changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders (including as a result of uncertain or adverse economic conditions, our inability to fulfill orders due to export regulations, shortage of parts, transportation capacity/interruptions or any other reason), we may not be able to replace the business, which may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of our customer base increases our risks related to the financial condition of our customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. To the extent our customers experience liquidity constraints, we may incur bad debt expense, which may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Major customers may seek pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to us, which may have a negative impact on our business, cash flow, revenue and gross margins. Supply chain disruptions, manufacturing interruptions or delays, or the failure to accurately forecast customer demand, could affect our ability to meet customer demand, lead to higher costs, or result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our business depends on our timely supply of products and services to meet the changing requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, materials and services from suppliers and contract manufacturers. Increases in demand for our products and worldwide demand for semiconductor chips and electronic devices can impact our suppliers ability to meet our demand requirements, and have in the past resulted in, and may from time to time result in, a shortage of parts, materials and services needed to manufacture our products. Such shortages, as well as delays in and unpredictability of shipments due to transportation interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our manufacturing operations and our ability to meet customer demand. Volatility of demand for equipment can also increase our and our suppliers capital, technical, operational and other risks, and may cause some suppliers to exit businesses, or scale back or cease operations, which could impact our ability to meet customer demand. Supply chain constraints may increase costs of logistics and parts for our products and may cause us to pass on increased costs to our customers, which may lead to reduced demand for our products and materially and adversely impact our operating results. Supply chain disruptions have in the past caused, and may from time to time cause, delays in our equipment production and delivery schedules, which can lead to our business performance becoming significantly dependent on quarter-end production and delivery schedules, and could have an adverse impact on our operating and financial results. Cybersecurity incidents affecting our suppliers could impact our supply chain. Such incidents have caused, and may from time to time cause, difficulties and delays in our ability to obtain parts, materials and services needed to manufacture our products and provide services, and have adversely impacted, and may from time to time adversely impact, our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet customer demand, and our operating results. Failure to timely recover from such delays could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may also cause our business and financial outlook to be inaccurate. We may further experience supply chain disruptions, significant interruptions of our manufacturing operations, delays in our ability to deliver or install products or services, increased costs, customer order cancellations or reduced demand for our products as a result of: global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade and export regulations, trade policies and sanctions, tariffs, international trade disputes, particularly those relating to exports of certain technologies to China, where a significant portion of our supply chain is located, and any retaliatory measures, that adversely impact us or our direct or sub-tier suppliers; political instability, social unrest, terrorism, acts of war or other geopolitical turmoil, such as the conflict in the Middle East, in locations where we or our customers or suppliers have manufacturing, research, engineering or other operations; 16 Table of Contents the failure or inability to accurately forecast demand and obtain quality parts on a cost-effective basis; volatility in the availability and cost of parts, commodities, energy and shipping related to our products, including increased costs due to rising inflation or interest rates or other market conditions; difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export licenses and approvals; shipment delays due to transportation interruptions or capacity constraints; a worldwide shortage of semiconductor components as a result of sharp increases in demand for semiconductor products in general; limited availability of feasible alternatives to materials subject to existing or proposed regulations to limit their use (such as hydrofluorocarbons and per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances), which are found in parts, components, process chemicals and other materials supplied to us or used in the manufacturing or operations of our products; information technology or infrastructure failures within our operations or those of a third-party supplier or service provider, including failures caused by cybersecurity incidents; impacts of natural disasters, extreme and chronic weather events (which may be exacerbated by climate change), or other events beyond our control (such as earthquakes, utility interruptions, tsunamis, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, storms or fires); and regional or global health epidemics. If a supplier fails to meet our requirements concerning quality, cost, intellectual property protection, socially-responsible and sustainable business practices, or other performance factors, or does not meet regulatory requirements applicable to our supply chain, we may transfer our business to alternative sources. Transferring business to alternative suppliers could result in manufacturing delays, additional costs or other difficulties, and may impair our ability to protect, enforce and extract the full value of our intellectual property rights, and the intellectual property rights of our customers and other third parties. These outcomes could have a material and adverse impact on our business and competitive position and subject us to legal proceedings and claims. If we are unable to meet our customers demand for a prolonged period due to our inability to obtain certain parts or components from suppliers on a timely basis or at all, our business, results of operations and customer relationships could be adversely impacted. If we need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this may strain our manufacturing and supply chain operations, and negatively impact our working capital. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, we may purchase more or fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If we purchase or commit to purchase inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or such inventory is rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, we may incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. We are exposed to various factors that impact the industries in which we operate. The global semiconductor, display and related industries are characterized by factors that impact demand for and the profitability of our products and services and our operating results, including: the nature, timing and degree of visibility of changes in demand for semiconductor chips and electronic devices, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to general economic or geopolitical conditions, seasonality or the introduction of new products, and the effects of these changes on customers businesses and on demand for our products; increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and customers ability to raise the necessary capital; trade, regulatory, tax or government incentives impacting the timing of customers investment in new or expanded fabrication plants; differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and other industries in which we operate; the importance of establishing, improving and maintaining strong relationships with customers; the cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the adoption rate of new manufacturing technology; the importance of reducing the total cost of manufacturing system ownership; the importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use fabrication systems which can reduce demand for new equipment; the importance of developing products with sufficient differentiation to influence customers purchasing decisions; 17 Table of Contents requirements for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of our equipment; price and performance trends for semiconductor devices and displays, and the impact on demand for such products; the importance of the availability of spare parts to maximize the time that customers systems are available for production; government incentives for local suppliers and domestic semiconductor research and development, and increased investment in manufacturing capabilities; the increasing role for and complexity of software in our products; and the focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations, and the availability of adequate and reliable sources of energy. If we do not effectively address these factors, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. We are exposed to factors specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest proportion of our consolidated net revenue and profitability is derived from our Semiconductor Systems segments sale of a wide range of equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips to the global semiconductor industry, and a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by factors particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of our semiconductor manufacturing equipment and service products, including: the frequency and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and our ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the cost of research and development due to many factors, including shrinking geometries, the use of new materials, new and more complex device structures, more applications and process steps, increasing chip design costs, and the cost and complexity of integrated manufacturing processes; the need to reduce product development time and meet technical challenges; the number of types and varieties of semiconductors and number of applications; the cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and smaller geometries to volume manufacturing, and the impact on investment in capital equipment; semiconductor manufacturers levels of capital expenditures and the allocation of capital investment to market segments that we do not serve, such as lithography, or segments where our products have lower relative market presence; delays in installation of our equipment delivered to customers; the importance of increasing market positions in segments with growing demand; semiconductor manufacturers ability to reconfigure and re-use equipment, resulting in diminished need to purchase new equipment and services from us, and challenges in providing parts for reused equipment; shorter cycle times between order placements by customers and product shipment require greater reliance on forecasting of customer investment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin; competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance position, including challenges in securing development-tool-of-record (DTOR) and production-tool-of-record (PTOR) positions with customers; consolidation in the semiconductor industry, including among semiconductor manufacturers and among semiconductor equipment suppliers; shifts in sourcing strategies by computer and electronics companies, and manufacturing processes for advanced circuit technologies, that impact the equipment requirements of our foundry customers; the concentration of new wafer starts in Korea and Taiwan, where our service penetration and service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other regions; the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products; the continuing importance of specialty markets (such as internet of things, communications, automotive, power and sensors) that use process technologies that have a low barrier to entry; and 18 Table of Contents the importance of advanced packaging to artificial intelligence computing. If we do not accurately forecast and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. We are exposed to factors specific to the display industry. The global display industry has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, production capacity relative to end-use demand, the speed of adopting new technologies into production, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs, and on demand for advanced smartphones and mobile device displays, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by factors particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of our display products and services, including: the importance of new types of display technologies, such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED), low temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide transistor backplanes, flexible displays, and new touch panel films; the increasing cost of research and development, and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and our ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes; the timing and extent of an expansion of manufacturing facilities in China, which may be affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental regulations, including trade policies and export regulations; the importance of increasing market positions in products and technologies with growing demand; the rate of transition to new display technologies for TVs, information technology products and mobile applications, and augmented and virtual reality applications, and the resulting effect on capital intensity in the industry and on our product differentiation, gross margin and return on investment; the concentration of display manufacturer customers, and fluctuations in customer spending quarter over quarter and year over year for display fabrication equipment; and the dependence on a limited number of display manufacturer customers selection of new technologies, and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers. The display industry has experienced decreased levels of investment in display fabrication equipment. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new and emerging display technologies, or if industry demand for display fabrication equipment and technologies does not grow, our business and our operating results may continue to be adversely impacted. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, and our future success depends on many factors, including the development of new technologies and effective commercialization and customer acceptance of our equipment, services and related products, and our ability to increase our position in our current markets, expand into adjacent and new markets, and optimize operational performance. The development, introduction and support of products in a geographically diverse and competitive environment requires collaboration with customers and other industry participants, which has grown more complex and expensive over time. New or improved products may entail higher costs, longer development cycles, lower profits and may have unforeseen product design or manufacturing defects. To compete successfully, we must: identify and address technology inflections, market changes, competitor innovations, new applications, customer requirements and end-use demand in a timely and effective manner; develop new products and disruptive technologies, improve and develop new applications for existing products, and adapt products for use by customers in different applications and markets with varying technical requirements; complete major infrastructure projects on schedule and on budget, and realize the anticipated benefits of those projects; differentiate our products from those of competitors, meet customers performance specifications (including those related to energy consumption and environmental impact more broadly), appropriately price products, and achieve market acceptance; maintain operating flexibility to enable responses to changing markets, applications and customer requirements; 19 Table of Contents enhance our worldwide operations across our businesses to reduce cycle time, enable continuous quality improvement, reduce costs, and enhance design for manufacturability and serviceability; focus on product development and sales and marketing strategies that address customers high value problems and strengthen customer relationships; effectively allocate resources between our existing products and markets, the development of new products, and expanding into new and adjacent markets; improve the productivity of capital invested in R&D activities; accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet production schedules for our products; improve our manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; qualify products for evaluation and volume manufacturing with our customers; and implement changes in our design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management. If we do not successfully anticipate technology inflections, develop and commercialize new products and technologies, and respond to changes in customer requirements and market trends, our business performance and operating results may be materially and adversely impacted. We are exposed to risks related to government incentives and other agreements that may involve government entities. From time to time we enter into agreements with government entities for grants, tax benefits and other incentives, or other funding related to our investment, research and development and production activities, or for sale of our products to government entities or government-funded programs. These agreements typically include terms that are not common in similar agreements with non-governmental entities, including representations and warranties, covenants and certifications, and record-keeping, accounting, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing, information handling, supply chain management, headcount, security, disclosure and other requirements. These agreements may also require us to achieve or maintain certain levels of investment, capital spending and performance milestones. Compliance with these requirements may add complexity to our operations and increase our costs, and a failure to comply could result in cancelation of agreements or transactions, investigations, civil and criminal penalties, forfeiture of profits, reduction, termination or clawback of any funding, suspension or debarment from doing business with the government, or other penalties, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to continue to expand into related or new markets and industries, either with our existing products or with new products developed internally, or those developed in collaboration with third parties, or obtained through acquisitions. Our ability to successfully expand our business into new and related markets and industries may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the need to devote additional resources to develop new products for, and operate in, new markets; the need to develop new sales and technical marketing strategies, and to develop relationships with new customers; differing rates of profitability and growth among multiple businesses; our ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks; the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations in production planning, execution, supply chain management and logistics; the adoption of new business models, business processes and systems; the complexity of entering into and effectively managing strategic alliances or partnering opportunities; new materials, processes and technologies; the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas; new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain or limited funding, evolving business models or locations in regions where we do not have, or have limited, operations; new or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources, industry experience and established customer relationships; 20 Table of Contents entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business, employment and safety practices and requirements; third parties intellectual property rights; and the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry standards and practices. We are exposed to risks related to the use of artificial intelligence by us and our competitors. We are increasingly incorporating artificial intelligence capabilities into the development of technologies and our business operations, and into our products and services. Artificial intelligence technology is complex and rapidly evolving, and may subject us to significant competitive, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks. The implementation of artificial intelligence can be costly, and there is no guarantee that our use of artificial intelligence will enhance our technologies, benefit our business operations, or produce products and services that are preferred by our customers. Our competitors may be more successful in their artificial intelligence strategy and develop superior products and services with the aid of artificial intelligence technology. Additionally, artificial intelligence algorithms or training methodologies may be flawed, and datasets may contain irrelevant, insufficient or biased information, which can cause errors in outputs. This may give rise to legal liability, damage our reputation, and materially harm our business. The use of artificial intelligence in the development of our products and services could also cause loss of intellectual property, as well as subject us to risks related to intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, data privacy and cybersecurity. Additionally, artificial intelligence technology may also create ethical issues, which could impair market adoption of such technology and impair demand for our products and services. Furthermore, the United States and other countries may adopt laws and regulations related to artificial intelligence. Such laws and regulations could cause us to incur greater compliance costs and limit the use of artificial intelligence in the development of our products and services. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to legal liabilities, damage our reputation, or otherwise have a material and adverse impact on our business. Operational and Financial Risks We are exposed to risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights. Our success depends on the protection of our technology using patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, such as the manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts that use our technology without authorization, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities. Monitoring and detecting any unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and we cannot be certain that the protective measures we have implemented will completely prevent misuse. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to litigation risks and uncertainty as to the protection and enforceability of those rights in some countries. If we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that those rights are invalid or unenforceable, and others may seek counterclaims against us, which could have a negative impact on our business. If we are unable to enforce and protect intellectual property rights, or if they are circumvented, rendered obsolete, invalidated by the rapid pace of technological change, or stolen or misappropriated by employees or third parties, it could have an adverse impact on our competitive position and business. Changes in intellectual property laws or their interpretation may impact our ability to protect and assert our intellectual property rights, increase costs and uncertainties in the prosecution of patent applications or related enforcement actions, and diminish the value and competitive advantage conferred by our intellectual property assets. From time to time third parties have asserted, and may continue to assert, intellectual property claims against us and our products. Claims that our products infringe the rights of others, whether or not meritorious, can be expensive and time-consuming to defend and resolve, and may divert the efforts and attention of management and personnel. The inability to obtain rights to use third-party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms could have an adverse impact on our business. We may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information. Any such incidents and claims could severely harm our business and reputation, result in significant expenses, harm our competitive position, and prevent us from selling certain products, all of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are exposed to cybersecurity threats and incidents. In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit, store, and otherwise process data using information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by us or our third-party providers. These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to us or our customers or other business partners, and personal information of individuals. All information technology systems are subject to disruptions, outages, failures, and security breaches or incidents, which may be caused by a variety of internal and external factors. We and our third-party providers have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity incidents. Cybersecurity incidents may range from physical attacks on our computer system or network infrastructure, to employee or contractor error or misuse or unauthorized use of information 21 Table of Contents technology systems or confidential information, to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated cybersecurity attacks, or advanced persistent threats, any of which may target or impact us directly or indirectly through our third-party providers and global supply chain. Threat actors may also attempt to influence employees, suppliers and other third-party providers, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers or business partners data. Cybersecurity attacks are increasing in number and the attackers are increasingly organized and well-financed, or at times supported by state actors. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine and increasing tension with China, may create a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks. To the extent artificial intelligence capabilities improve and are increasingly adopted by threat actors, they may be used to identify vulnerabilities and craft increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. Artificial intelligence and deepfake technologies could be used to attack information systems by creating more effective phishing emails or social engineering and by exploiting vulnerabilities in electronic security programs utilizing false image or voice recognition. Vulnerabilities, technical errors and other risks may be introduced through the use of artificial intelligence by us, our customers, suppliers and other business partners and third-party providers, or through the use of third-party hardware and software. Although we are not aware of any cybersecurity incidents impacting our information systems that have been determined to have a material impact on us to date, we continue to devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other measures to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse, and we may be required to expend greater resources in the future, especially in the face of evolving and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats and laws, regulations, and other actual and asserted obligations to which we are or may become subject relating to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity. We may be unable to anticipate, prevent, or remediate future attacks, vulnerabilities, breaches, or incidents, and in some instances we may be unaware of vulnerabilities or cybersecurity breaches or incidents or their magnitude and effects, particularly as attackers are increasingly able to circumvent controls and remove forensic evidence. Cybersecurity incidents, including cybersecurity incidents on third-party provider networks, may result in business disruption; delay in the development and delivery of our products; disruption of our manufacturing processes, internal communications, interactions with customers and suppliers and processing and reporting financial results; the theft or misappropriation of intellectual property; corruption, loss of, or inability to access (e.g., through ransomware or denial of service) confidential information and critical data (i.e., that of our company and our third-party providers and customers); reputational damage; private claims, demands, and litigation or regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, or other proceedings related to contractual or regulatory privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, or other confidentiality obligations; diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering; and increased costs associated with the implementation of cybersecurity measures to detect, deter, protect against, and recover from such incidents. Our efforts to comply with, and changes to, laws, regulations, and contractual and other actual and asserted obligations concerning privacy, cybersecurity, and data protection, including developing restrictions on cross-border data transfer and data localization, could result in significant expense, and any actual or alleged failure to comply could result in inquiries, investigations, and other proceedings against us by regulatory authorities or other third parties. Customers and third-party providers increasingly demand rigorous contractual provisions regarding privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, confidentiality, and intellectual property, which may increase our overall compliance burden. We are exposed to risks associated with business combinations, acquisitions, strategic investments and divestitures. We may engage in acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks to our business, financial condition and operating results, including: inability to complete proposed transactions timely or at all due to the failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals, including through expanding global national security regimes that impose prohibitions on foreign investments in or acquisitions of local businesses; litigation or other disputes, and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee; diversion of managements attention and disruption of ongoing businesses; the failure to realize expected revenues, gross and operating margins, net income and other returns from acquired businesses; requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures and restrictions on the conduct of our existing business or the acquired business; following completion of acquisitions, ineffective integration of businesses, operations, systems, digital and physical security, technologies, products, employees, compliance programs, changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws, or other factors, may impact the ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits; failure to commercialize technologies from acquired businesses or developed through strategic investments; dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from our existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions and customer relationships; 22 Table of Contents failure to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses; the impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; changes in our credit rating, which could adversely impact our access to and cost of capital; increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which increase interest expense, and reductions in cash balances, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes, including share repurchases and dividends; exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we have not historically conducted business; challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people; inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal financial controls, disclosure