Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations All statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those made by the management of Applied, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding Applieds future financial or operating results, fiscal 2010 expectations, cash flows and cash deployment strategies, declaration of dividends, share repurchases, business strategies, projected costs, products, competitive positions, managements plans and objectives for future operations, research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures, growth opportunities, customers, working capital, liquidity, investment portfolio and policies, and legal proceedings, as well as industry trends and outlooks. These forward-looking statements are based on managements estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as may, will, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential and continue, the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. Any expectations based on these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors, including those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, below and elsewhere in this report. Other risks and uncertainties may be disclosed in Applieds prior Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. These and many other factors could affect Applieds future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. Overview Applied provides Nanomanufacturing Technology tm solutions for the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, with a broad portfolio of innovative equipment, service and software products. Applieds customers are primarily manufacturers of semiconductors, flat panel liquid crystal displays (LCDs), solar photovoltaic cells and modules (solar PVs), flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. Product development and manufacturing activities occur primarily in North America, Europe, Israel and Asia. Applieds broad range of equipment and service products are highly technical and are sold primarily through a direct sales force. Applieds results historically have been driven primarily by worldwide demand for semiconductors, which in turn depends on end-user demand for electronic products. Each of Applieds businesses is subject to cyclical industry conditions, as demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on supply and demand for chips, LCDs, solar PVs and other electronic devices, as well as other factors, such as global economic and market conditions, and technological advances in fabrication processes. After a challenging year in fiscal 2009 that was characterized by credit constraints in the financial markets and a weak global economy, industry conditions generally improved in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The following table presents certain significant measurements for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009: Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 Change (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) New orders $ 1,965 $ 903 117 % Net sales $ 1,849 $ 1,333 39 % Gross margin $ 711 $ 392 82 % Gross margin percent 38.5 % 29.4 % 9 points Operating income (loss) $ 116 $ (196 ) 159 % Net income (loss) $ 83 $ (133 ) 162 % Earnings (loss) per share $ 0.06 $ (0.10 ) 160 % 29 Table of Contents Fiscal year 2010 is a 53-week year with 14 weeks in the first quarter, while fiscal 2009 was a 52-week year with 13 weeks in the first quarter. Financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 reflected increased demand for manufacturing equipment and services due to more favorable global economic and industry conditions compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Total orders in the quarter increased year-over-year, primarily due to greater demand for semiconductor and display equipment and services, partially offset by decreased demand for SunFab thin film manufacturing lines. Net sales and net income increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, led primarily by stronger sales of semiconductor equipment. Net income in both periods included restructuring charges. Applied currently expects net sales in fiscal 2010 to be greater than net sales in fiscal 2009. Results of Operations New orders of $2.0 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 were up 117 percent from the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in demand for semiconductor products and services from memory and foundry customers, as well as increased demand for display equipment. New orders by geographic region (determined by the location of customers facilities) for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009 were as follows: Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 ($) (%) ($) (%) (In millions, except percentages) Taiwan 658 34 19 2 Korea 387 20 66 7 North America* 256 13 237 26 China 215 11 69 8 Japan 178 9 154 17 Europe 146 7 346 39 Southeast Asia 125 6 12 1 Total 1,965 100 903 100 * Primarily the United States. Applieds backlog for the most recent three fiscal quarters was as follows: $2.9 billion at January 31, 2010, $2.7 billion at October 25, 2009, and $3.0 billion at July 26, 2009. Backlog increased 7 percent for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Backlog increased in the first quarter of 2010 primarily due to the inclusion of orders for products obtained through the acquisition of Semitool. Backlog consists of: (1) orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months; and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are anticipated to be recognized as revenue within the next 12 months. Due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders, Applieds backlog at any particular time is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future periods. Net sales of $1.8 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 increased 39 percent from the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 reflected higher sales primarily to semiconductor equipment customers. 30 Table of Contents Net sales by geographic region (determined by the location of customers facilities) for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009 were as follows: Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 ($) (%) ($) (%) (In millions, except percentages) Taiwan 514 28 144 11 Korea 331 18 187 14 Europe 310 17 197 15 North America* 241 13 383 29 Japan 174 9 216 16 China 143 8 118 8 Southeast Asia 136 7 88 7 Total 1,849 100 1,333 100 * Primarily the United States. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales was 38.5 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, up from 29.4 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase was principally attributable to higher net sales, product mix, improved factory utilization and continued cost control measures. Gross margin during the first quarters of fiscal 2010 and 2009 included $5 million and $7 million of equity-based compensation expense, respectively. Operating expenses included expenses related to research, development and engineering (RD&E), marketing and selling (M&S), and general and administrative (G&A). Expenses related to RD&E, M&S and G&A totaled $491 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to $455 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The first quarter of fiscal 2010 included fewer shutdown days than the first quarter of fiscal 2009, an extra week, elimination of temporary salary reductions, and the resumption of variable compensation programs. Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 also included transaction and legal costs related to the Semitool, Inc. (Semitool) acquisition and the Advent Solar, Inc. (Advent Solar) asset purchase. Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 included restructuring charges of $104 million associated with a program that was announced in November 2009. Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 included restructuring charges of $133 million associated with a program that was announced in November 2008. (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.) Net interest income was $4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, down from $9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The decline was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. Applieds effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was a provision of 30.3 percent as compared to a benefit of 34.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The income tax rate for both the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and 2009 included the effect of restructuring charges as discrete items. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre-tax income, and the tax rate on equity compensation. Management carefully monitors these factors and timely adjusts the interim income tax rate accordingly. Segment Information Applied reports financial results in four segments: Silicon, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. A description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each reportable segment can be found in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments certain operating expenses that it manages separately at the corporate level. These unallocated costs include those for equity-based compensation and certain corporate functions (certain management, finance, legal, human resources, and RD&E), and unabsorbed information technology and 31 Table of Contents occupancy. In addition, Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustments related to restructuring actions. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied changed its methodology for allocating certain expenses to its reportable segments. Applied has reclassified segment operating results for the three months ended January 25, 2009 to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation. The results for each reportable segment are discussed below. Silicon Segment The Silicon segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for deposition, etch, rapid thermal processing, chemical mechanical planarization, and metrology and inspection. Development efforts are focused on solving customers key technical challenges, including transistor performance and nanoscale patterning, and on improving chip manufacturing productivity to reduce costs. Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) New orders $ 1,135 $ 246 Net sales $ 970 $ 546 Operating income $ 306 $ 46 Silicon new orders increased significantly to $1.1 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $0.2 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase in new orders was primarily from memory and foundry customers and reflected the general recovery in the semiconductor equipment industry. Net sales increased 78 percent to $970 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase in net sales was due to increased investment by memory and foundry customers. Three customers accounted for 63 percent of net sales for the Silicon segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Approximately 70 percent of net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was attributable to orders placed during the quarter. Operating income increased significantly to $306 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase in operating income was due to the considerably higher revenue from semiconductor equipment sales. Applied Global Services Segment The Applied Global Services segment encompasses technically differentiated products, including spares, services, certain earlier generation equipment products, and remanufactured equipment, to improve operating efficiency, reduce operating costs, and lessen the environmental impact of semiconductor, display and solar customers factories. Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites. Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) New orders $ 474 $ 310 Net sales $ 426 $ 345 Operating income $ 63 $ 26 New orders increased 53 percent to $474 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, due primarily to higher demand for spare parts, reflecting customers higher factory utilization rates. Net sales increased 23 percent to $426 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, primarily due to higher sales of spare parts. 32 Table of Contents Operating income more than doubled to $63 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, reflecting increased sales of spare parts. Display Segment The Display segment encompasses products for manufacturing LCDs for TVs, personal computers and other video-enabled devices. The business is focused on expanding market share by differentiation with larger-scale substrates, entry into new markets, and development of products to enable cost reductions through productivity and uniformity. Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) New orders $ 126 $ 26 Net sales $ 132 $ 149 Operating income $ 25 $ 21 New orders increased significantly to $126 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to $26 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase in new orders reflected the general recovery in the LCD market, as customers increased production levels in response to higher end-use demand. Net sales decreased 11 percent to $132 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, reflecting the cyclical nature of the LCD market. Operating income increased 19 percent to $25 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, due to more favorable product mix. Energy and Environmental Solutions Segment The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes products for fabricating thin film and crystalline silicon (c-Si) solar PVs, high throughput roll-to-roll coating systems for flexible electronics and web products, and systems used in the manufacture of energy-efficient glass. This business is focused on delivering solutions to generate and conserve energy, with an emphasis on lowering the cost to produce solar power by providing equipment to enhance manufacturing scale and efficiency. Three Months Ended January 31, January 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) New orders $ 230 $ 321 Net sales $ 321 $ 293 Operating loss $ 36 $ 64 New orders decreased 28 percent to $230 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, due to decreased demand for SunFab thin film manufacturing lines, partially offset by increased demand for c-Si products, particularly wafering and metallization products. The continued challenging credit environment and uncertain thin film solar market conditions contributed to the reduction in orders for SunFab lines in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Net sales increased 9 percent to $321 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, reflecting higher sales to SunFab customers. Operating loss decreased 44 percent to $36 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2009, attributable to higher net sales and more favorable product mix, offset in part by higher RD&E expenses and costs associated with the asset purchase from Advent Solar. 33 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources During the three months ended January 31, 2010, cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased by $67 million from $3.3 billion as of October 25, 2009. Cash, cash equivalents and investments consisted of the following: January 31, October 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,399 $ 1,577 Short-term investments 755 638 Long-term investments 1,046 1,052 Total cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 3,200 $ 3,267 Applied generated $372 million of cash in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2010. The primary sources of cash from operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2010 were net income, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash charges including restructuring and asset impairments, depreciation, amortization, and equity based compensation, and changes in components of working capital. Applied utilized programs to discount letters of credit issued by customers of $27 million and $13 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009, respectively. Discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. For the three months ended January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009, Applied factored accounts receivable and discounted promissory notes totaling $26 million and $4 million, respectively. Days sales outstanding for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 increased to 67 days, compared to 62 days in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily due to increased revenue and an additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Applied used $490 million of cash from investing activities during the three months ended January 31, 2010, primarily due to the acquisition of Semitool, a public company based in the state of Montana, for $323 million, net of cash acquired. Purchases of investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, totaled $114 million. Capital expenditures were $53 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and included investment in the construction of a solar R&D/demonstration center in Xian, China and also included investment in the construction of a facility in Singapore. Applied used $60 million of cash for financing activities during the three months ended January 31, 2010, consisting primarily of $80 million in cash dividends paid to stockholders, offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. Since November 2008, Applied has temporarily suspended stock repurchases in order to maintain financial flexibility in light of uncertain global economic and market conditions. In December 2009, Applieds Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.06 per share that will be paid on March 17, 2010 to stockholders of record as of February 24, 2010. In March 2010, Applieds Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.07 per share, payable on June 16, 2010 to stockholders of record as of May 26, 2010. Applieds Board of Directors also approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing up to $2 billion in repurchases over the next three years ending in March 2013. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applieds financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applieds stockholders. Applied has credit facilities for unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to $1.1 billion, of which $1.0 billion is comprised of a 5-year revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that is scheduled to expire in January 2012. This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance at January 31, 2010. Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $90 million are with Japanese banks. Applieds ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen. No amounts were outstanding under any of the above credit facilities at January 31, 2010. In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of January 31, 34 Table of Contents 2010, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee arrangements was $54 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee arrangements. Applied expects that changes in its business will affect its working capital components, primarily related to its Energy and Environmental Solutions segment, which includes products for manufacturing solar PVs. Applied has entered into contracts with multiple customers for its SunFab thin film line for projects of varying scale. Fulfillment of these contracts requires Applied to invest in inventory, particularly work in process, which investment may be offset by customer deposits. Changes in these contracts may result in inventory charges if Applied determines the inventory to be in excess of anticipated demand. Applieds investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and, to a small extent, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities. Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies. During the three months ended January 31, 2010, as part of its regular investment review process, Applied recorded impairment charges of $1 million associated with equity investments in privately-held companies. At January 31, 2010, Applied had a gross unrealized loss in its investment portfolio of $0.8 million due to a decrease in the fair value of certain fixed income securities. Applied regularly reviews its investment portfolio to identify and evaluate investments that have indications of possible impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include: the length of time and extent to which fair value has been lower than the cost basis; the financial condition, credit quality and near-term prospects of the investee; and whether it is more likely-than-not that Applied will be required to sell the security prior to any anticipated recovery in fair value. Generally, the contractual terms of the investments do not permit settlement at prices less than the amortized cost of the investments. While Applied cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, Applied believes that its investment policies provide an appropriate means to manage the risks in its investment portfolio. During the three months ended January 31, 2010, Applied recorded a bad debt provision of $6 million as a result of certain customers financial condition. During the three months ended January 25, 2009, Applied recorded a bad debt provision of $48 million as a result of certain customers deteriorating financial condition. While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at January 31, 2010 is adequate, it will continue to closely monitor customer liquidity and economic conditions. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds consolidated financial statements and that requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Applied recognizes revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; sellers price to buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectability is probable. Each sale arrangement may contain commercial terms that differ from other arrangements. In addition, Applied frequently enters into contracts that contain multiple deliverables. Judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. Moreover, judgment is used in interpreting the commercial terms and determining when all criteria of revenue recognition have been met in order for revenue recognition to occur in the appropriate accounting period. While changes in the allocation of the estimated sales price between the units of accounting will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular sales arrangement, any material changes in these allocations could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on Applieds financial results of operations. In 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued amended revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables and certain software sold with tangible products. This new guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue recognition and allows the use of managements best estimate of selling price for individual elements of an arrangement when vendor specific evidence or third party evidence is unavailable. Applied implemented this guidance prospectively beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 for transactions that were initiated or materially modified during fiscal 2010. The implementation of the new guidance had an insignificant impact on reported net sales as compared to net sales under previous guidance, as the new guidance did not change the units of accounting within sales arrangements and the elimination of the residual method for the allocation of arrangement consideration had an inconsequential impact on the amount and timing of reported net sales. Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory Valuation Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its realizable value. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using both the income approach and the market approach taking into account such factors as future anticipated operating results and estimated cost of capital. Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in new emerging markets. A severe decline in market value could result in an unexpected impairment charge for impaired goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Income Taxes The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, non-tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and availability of tax credits. Management carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the effective income tax rate as required. If actual results differ from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied accounts for income taxes by recognizing deferred tax assets and liabilities using statutory tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities, net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are also reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that Applieds future taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax assets. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applieds expectations could have a material impact on Applieds results of operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents