Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, expects, believes, plans, predicts, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 25, 2010 (the 2010 Form 10-K) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available on the Companys website at http://www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets a range of personal computers, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Companys products and services include Mac computers, iPhone , iPad , iPod , Apple TV , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the Mac OS X and iOS operating systems, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store and Mac App Store, and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, as well as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Mac, iPhone, iPad and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise, government, and creative markets. The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Companys business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment in research and development is critical to the development and enhancement of innovative products and technologies. In conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues to build and host a robust platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. Within the iTunes Store, the Company has expanded its offerings through the App Store and iBookstore, which allow customers to browse, search for, and purchase third-party applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or by wirelessly downloading directly to an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. In January 2011, the Company opened the Mac App Store allowing customers to find, download and install applications for their Macs in one step. The Company also works to support a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Companys offerings. Additionally, the Companys strategy includes expanding its distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company is therefore uniquely positioned to offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. 20 The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac computers; mobile communications and media devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; and distribution of third-party digital content and applications with its online iTunes Store. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the markets where it competes, these markets are highly competitive and subject to aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment in research and development and marketing and advertising is necessary to maintain or expand its position in the markets where it competes. The Companys research and development spending is focused on investing in new hardware and software products, and in further developing its existing products, including Mac, iPhone, iPad, and iPod hardware; Mac OS X and iOS operating systems; and a variety of application software. The Company also believes increased investment in marketing and advertising programs is critical to increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels, including its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available on its products, and demonstrate the compatibility of the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of integration and support services, and product expertise. Products The Company offers a range of personal computing products, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, as well as a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and various third-party hardware and software products. In addition, the Company offers its own software products, including Mac OS X, the Companys proprietary operating system software for the Mac; iOS, the Companys proprietary mobile operating system; server software; and application software for consumer, education, and business customers. A detailed discussion of the Companys other products may be found in Part I, Item 1, Business, of the Companys 2010 Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys 2010 Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of marketable securities, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. 21 Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products (e.g., Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods and peripherals), software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware, and third-party digital content sold on the iTunes Store in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types of sales transactions: (i) standalone sales of software products, (ii) sales of software upgrades and (iii) sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include tangible products containing software essential to the tangible products functionality and undelivered software elements relating to the tangible products essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Companys best estimates of what the selling prices of elements would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. For all past and current sales of iPhone, iPad, Apple TV and for sales of iPod touch beginning in June 2010, the Company indicated it might from time-to-time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free of charge to customers. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for embedded unspecified software upgrade rights, revenue is allocated to these rights based on the Companys ESPs. Revenue allocated to the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 24-month estimated life of each of the related hardware products. The Companys process for determining ESPs involves managements judgment. The Companys process considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. If the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change or should future facts and circumstances lead the Company to consider additional factors, the Companys ESP for software upgrades related to future sales of these devices could change. If the estimated life of one or more of the hardware products should change, the future rate of amortization of the revenue allocated to the software upgrade rights would also change. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Companys policy requires that, if refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Managements estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. 22 Valuation and Impairment of Marketable Securities The Companys investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of investments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, as reported in the Companys Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of investments impact the Companys net income only when such investments are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of each securitys cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell, the investment before recovery of the investments amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment on whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired or not, could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular investment. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The industries in which the Company competes are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results of operations in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could materially affect the Companys results of operations. The Company periodically provides updates to its applications and operating system software to maintain the softwares compliance with specifications. The estimated cost to develop such updates is accounted for as warranty cost that is recognized at the time related software revenue is recognized. Factors considered in determining appropriate accruals related to such updates include the number of units delivered, the number of updates expected to occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost of the resources necessary to develop these updates. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. 23 The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, will be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. In the event that the Company determines all or part of the net deferred tax assets are not realizable in the future, the Company will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance that would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part II, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q under the heading Legal Proceedings and in Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In managements opinion, the Company does not have a potential liability related to any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of these legal matters or should several of these legal matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 24 Net Sales The following table summarizes net sales and Mac unit sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product during the three months ended December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 (in millions, except unit sales in thousands and per unit amounts): Three Months Ended December 25, 2010 December 26, 2009 Change Net Sales by Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ 9,218 $ 6,092 51% Europe net sales 7,256 5,024 44% Japan net sales 1,433 783 83% Asia-Pacific net sales 4,987 1,813 175% Retail net sales 3,847 1,971 95% Total net sales $ 26,741 $ 15,683 71% Net Sales by Product: Desktops (a) $ 1,731 $ 1,692 2% Portables (b) 3,699 2,758 34% Total Mac net sales 5,430 4,450 22% iPod 3,425 3,391 1% Other music related products and services (c) 1,431 1,164 23% iPhone and related products and services (d) 10,468 5,578 88% iPad and related products and services (e) 4,608 0 NM Peripherals and other hardware (f) 593 469 26% Software, service and other sales (g) 786 631 25% Total net sales $ 26,741 $ 15,683 71% Unit Sales by Product: Desktops (a) 1,227 1,234 (1% ) Portables (b) 2,907 2,128 37% Total Mac unit sales 4,134 3,362 23% Net sales per Mac unit sold (h) $ 1,313 $ 1,324 (1% ) iPod unit sales 19,446 20,970 (7% ) Net sales per iPod unit sold (h) $ 176 $ 162 9% iPhone unit sales 16,235 8,737 86% iPad unit sales 7,331 0 NM (a) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. (b) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. (c) Includes iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. (d) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. (e) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. (f) Includes sales of displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. (g) Includes sales of Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, and Mac and Internet services. (h) Derived by dividing total product-related net sales by total product-related unit sales. NM = Not Meaningful 25 Net sales during the first quarter of 2011 increased $11.1 billion or 71% compared to the same quarter in 2010. Several factors contributed positively to these increases, including the following: Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $10.5 billion in the first quarter of 2011 representing an increase of $4.9 billion or 88% compared to the first quarter of 2010. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services accounted for 39% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 36% in the first quarter of 2010. iPhone unit sales totaled 16.2 million in the first quarter of 2011, which represents an increase of 7.5 million units or 86% compared to the same period in 2010. iPhone year-over-year growth reflects strong demand for iPhone 4 in all of the Companys operating segments and the expanded distribution with new carriers and resellers. As of December 25, 2010, the Company distributed iPhone in 90 countries through 185 carriers. In January 2011, the Company announced plans to expand U.S. distribution of iPhone to the Verizon Wireless network beginning in February 2011. Net sales of iPad and related products and services were $4.6 billion and unit sales of iPad were 7.3 million during the first quarter of 2011. iPad was released in the U.S. in April 2010 and in various other countries over the remainder of 2010. As of December 25, 2010, the Company distributed iPad in 46 countries. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales of iPad and related products and services accounted for 17% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2011. Mac net sales increased by $980 million or 22% to $5.4 billion in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 and Mac unit sales increased by 772,000 or 23% in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. Net sales per Mac unit sold for the first quarter of 2011 were relatively unchanged from the first quarter of 2010. During the first quarter of 2011, net sales and unit sales of the Companys Mac portable systems increased by 34% and 37%, respectively, primarily attributable to strong demand for MacBook Air, which was updated in October 2010, and MacBook Pro. Net sales and unit sales of the Companys Mac desktop systems were relatively flat year-over-year. Net sales of the Companys Macs accounted for 20% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 28% in the first quarter of 2010. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $267 million or 23% to $1.4 billion during the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. This increase was due primarily to growth of the iTunes Store which generated total net sales of $1.16 billion for the first quarter 2011. The results of the iTunes Store reflect growth of the iTunes App Store and continued growth in the installed base of iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers. Net sales of other music related products and services accounted for 5% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 7% in the first quarter of 2010. Net sales of iPods increased $34 million or 1% to $3.4 billion, while iPod unit sales decreased by 7% during the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. Net sales per iPod unit sold increased by 9% to $176 in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $162 in the first quarter of 2010, due to a shift in product mix toward iPod touch. iPod touch experienced double-digit growth in each of the Companys operating segments. Net sales of iPods accounted for 13% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 22% in the first quarter of 2010. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable operating and reporting segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segment results do not include the results of the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores in 11 countries, including the U.S. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 8, Segment Information and Geographic Data in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. 26 Americas During the first quarter of 2011, net sales in the Americas segment increased $3.1 billion or 51% compared to the first quarter of 2010. This increase in net sales was driven by the launch of iPad and increased sales of iPhone and Macs. The Americas segment represented 35% and 39% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Europe During the first quarter of 2011, net sales in Europe increased $2.2 billion or 44% compared to the first quarter in 2010. The growth in net sales was due mainly to an increase in iPhone sales attributable to country and carrier expansion, the launch of iPad, and increased sales of Macs, partially offset by the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar. The Europe segment represented 27% and 32% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Japan During the first quarter of 2011, net sales in Japan increased $650 million or 83% compared to the first quarter in 2010. The primary contributors to the growth in net sales were increases in sales of iPhone, the launch of iPad, higher sales of Macs, and to a lesser extent the impact of a stronger Japanese Yen. The Japan segment represented 5% of the Companys total net sales for both the first quarter of 2011 and 2010. Asia-Pacific Net sales in Asia-Pacific increased $3.2 billion or 175% during the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010. The Company experienced particularly strong year-over-year net sales growth in China, Hong Kong and Korea. Net sales growth in the Asia-Pacific segment resulted from significantly increased iPhone sales attributable to country and carrier expansion and continued growth from existing carriers. Asia-Pacific net sales were also favorably affected by the launch of iPad and strong demand for Macs. The Asia-Pacific segment represented 19% and 11% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Retail Retail net sales increased $1.9 billion or 95% during the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010. The increase in net sales was driven primarily by the launch of iPad, a significant year-over-year increase in iPhone sales, and higher sales of Macs. The Company opened six new retail stores during the first quarter of 2011, three of which were international stores, ending the quarter with 323 stores open compared to 283 stores at the end of the first quarter of 2010. With an average of 321 stores and 278 stores opened during the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively, average revenue per store increased to $12.0 million in the first quarter of 2011, compared to $7.1 million in the first quarter of 2010. The Retail segment represented 14% and 13% of the Companys total net sales in the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Retail segment reported operating income of $1.0 billion during the first quarter of 2011 as compared to $481 million during the first quarter of 2010. The year-over-year increase in Retail operating income during the first quarter of 2011 was primarily attributable to higher overall net sales resulting in more effective leverage of fixed costs. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled $2.2 billion through the first quarter of 2011. As of December 25, 2010, the Retail segment had approximately 29,700 full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities of $1.7 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores, and such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. 27 Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 was as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): Three Months Ended December 25, 2010 December 26, 2009 Net sales $ 26,741 $ 15,683 Cost of sales 16,443 9,272 Gross margin $ 10,298 $ 6,411 Gross margin percentage 38.5% 40.9% The gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2011 was 38.5% compared to 40.9% in the first quarter of 2010. The year-over-year decline in gross margin is primarily attributable to new and innovative products that have higher cost structures, including iPhone 4 and iPad. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2010, largely due to a higher mix of new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, and expected and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors, including but not limited to certain of those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subheading Future operating results depend upon the Companys ability to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities , which is incorporated herein by reference. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and potential and expected increases in the cost of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs, as well as potential increases in the costs of outside manufacturing services and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short-term by fluctuations in exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009, were as follows (in millions, except for percentages): Three Months Ended December 25, 2010 December 26, 2009 Research and development $ 575 $ 398 Percentage of net sales 2% 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,896 $ 1,288 Percentage of net sales 7% 8% Research and Development Expense (R&D) R&D expense increased 44% or $177 million to $575 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $398 million in the first quarter of 2010. This increase was due primarily to an increase in headcount and related expenses to support expanded R&D activities. Although total R&D expense increased 44% during the first quarter of 2011, it declined as a percentage of net sales, due to the 71% year-over-year increase in net sales. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to make further investments in R&D to remain competitive. 28 Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A) SG&A expense increased $608 million or 47% to $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2010. The year-over-year increase in SG&A expense was due primarily to the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment, higher spending on marketing and advertising programs, increased variable costs associated with the overall growth of the Companys net sales, and higher stock-based compensation expense. Other Income and Expense Total other income and expense increased $103 million or 312% to $136 million during the first quarter of 2011 compared to $33 million in the first quarter of 2010. The overall increase in other income and expense is attributable to higher interest income due to the Companys higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances in addition to lower premium expenses on foreign exchange option contracts during the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the first quarter of 2010. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 0.75% in both the first quarter of 2011 and 2010. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2011 was approximately 25% compared with approximately 29% for the first quarter of 2010. The Companys effective rate for both periods differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The lower effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the same quarter of 2010 is due primarily to a higher proportion of foreign earnings as compared to the prior year and the recognition of a tax benefit as a result of legislation enacted during the first quarter of 2011 retroactively reinstating the research and development tax credit. The Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2004 through 2006 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS is currently examining the years 2007 through 2009. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2004 have been resolved. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of December 25, 2010 and September 25, 2010 (in millions): December 25, 2010 September 25, 2010 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 59,707 $ 51,011 Accounts receivable, net $ 6,027 $ 5,510 Inventory $ 885 $ 1,051 Working capital $ 20,132 $ 20,956 As of December 25, 2010, the Company had $59.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $8.7 billion from September 25, 2010. The principal component of this net increase was the cash generated by operating activities of $9.8 billion, which was partially offset by payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment of $1.2 billion. The Companys marketable securities investment portfolio is invested primarily in highly rated securities, generally with a minimum rating of single-A or equivalent. As of December 25, 2010 and September 25, 2010, $35.1 billion and $30.8 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. 29 Capital Assets The Companys capital expenditures were $1.4 billion during the first quarter of 2011 consisting of approximately $56 million for retail store facilities and $1.3 billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, real estate for the future development of the Companys second corporate campus, and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Companys actual cash payments for capital expenditures during the first quarter of 2011 were $1.2 billion, of which $59 million relates to retail store facilities. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $5.7 billion for capital expenditures during 2011, including approximately $600 million for retail store facilities and approximately $5.1 billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. Historically the Company has opened between 25 and 50 new retail stores per year. During 2011, the Company expects to open 40 to 50 new stores, over half of which are expected to be located outside of the U.S. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company. Lease Commitments As of September 25, 2010, the Company had total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases of $2.1 billion, $1.7 billion of which related to the lease of retail space and related facilities. The Companys major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding 10 years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. Total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases related to the lease of retail space were $1.7 billion as of December 25, 2010. Purchase Commitments with Outsourcing Partners and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. As of December 25, 2010, the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of $7.9 billion. The Company has also entered into long-term agreements to secure the supply of certain inventory components. These agreements generally expire between 2011 and 2022. As of December 25, 2010, the Company had off-balance sheet commitments under long-term supply agreements totaling approximately $3.2 billion to make additional inventory component prepayments and to acquire capital equipment in 2011 and beyond. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $967 million as of December 25, 2010, and were comprised mainly of commitments to acquire product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, in addition to that noted above under long-term supply agreements, and commitments related to advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Companys other non-current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily of deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. As of December 25, 2010, the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $5.4 billion. Additionally, as of December 25, 2010, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.0 billion and an additional $254 million for gross interest and penalties classified as non-current liabilities. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. 30 Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and/or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against it or an indemnified third-party and, in the opinion of management, does not have a liability related to unresolved infringement claims subject to indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition or operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record a liability for infringement costs as of either December 25, 2010 or September 25, 2010. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Companys financial condition or operating results.