Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys market projections, financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, events or developments which the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof); expansion and growth of the Companys business and operations; and other such matters are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors it believes are appropriate under the circumstances. However, whether actual results or developments will conform with the Companys expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including general economic, market and business conditions; the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by the Company; changes in laws or regulation; and other factors, most of which are beyond the control of the Company. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of predictive, future-tense or forward-looking terminology, such as believes, anticipates, expects, estimates, plans, may, will, or similar terms. These statements appear in a number of places in this filing and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, and its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) trends affecting the Companys financial condition or results of operations for its limited history; (ii) the Companys business and growth strategies; and, (iii) the Companys financing plans. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Such factors that could adversely affect actual results and performance include, but are not limited to, the Companys limited operating history, potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results and expenses, government regulation, technological change and competition. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K are qualified by these cautionary statements and there can be no assurance that the actual results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that they will have the expected consequence to or effects on the Company or its business or operations. The Company assumes no obligations to update any such forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise indicated, references to we, us, our, or Company mean Liaoning Shuiyun Qinghe Rice Industry Co., Ltd. and references to fiscal mean the Companys fiscal year ended April 30. ii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Liaoning Shuiyun Qinghe Rice Industry Co., Ltd. (Shuiyun Qinghe, we, our or the Company) (formerly knowns as Arbor Entech Corporation and Evergreen International Corp ., respectively) started as a wood products company that had been in business since 1980. Our business fluctuated over the years. We were almost wholly dependent on sales to The Home Depot, Inc. On September 2, 2003, we terminated our business relationship with Home Depot due to increased difficulties in transacting business with such company on a profitable basis. These difficulties included Home Depots prohibition against price increases, despite increases in our costs of production, a diminution in the Home Depot territories to which we were allowed to sell our products, and Home Depots demands regarding returns of ordered products that we were unwilling to accede to for economic reasons. On June 22, 2018, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the SPA) with a third party (the Purchaser) and certain selling stockholders, including the Companys controlling stockholders (all of the selling stockholders, collectively, the Sellers). Pursuant to the SPA, the Purchaser agreed to acquire approximately 98.75% of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock (the Shares). The transaction contemplated by the SPA was subject to various conditions, including payment of a cash dividend to the Companys stockholders and the Companys changing its name and ticker symbol as per the direction of the Purchaser. On July 6, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company (i) declared a cash dividend in an aggregate amount of $181,996, or an average of $0.024760 per share, payable to stockholders of record on July 16, 2018, and (ii) approved an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation to change the Companys name to Evergreen International, Corp., which amendment was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on July 13, 2018 and became effective on July 20, 2018. On July 27, 2018, the transaction contemplated by the SPA closed and the Purchaser acquired the Shares for a cash consideration of $325,000. The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the SPA resulted in a change of control of the Company. On October 20, 2020, Jianguo Wei, our former Chief Executive Officer, President, Treasurer and Director, entered into an Acquisition Agreement with Shanghai Yuyue Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd. (SYEM) pursuant to which Mr. Wei agreed to sell all 7,258,750 shares held by Tan Ying Lok, constituting approximately 98.75% of the Company, to SYEM for aggregate cash consideration of $200,000. Mr. Wei was authorized to enter into the Acquisition Agreement on behalf of Mr. Lok pursuant to an Authorization Letter dated October 20, 2020. The acquisition consummated October 20, 2020, and the parties are in the process of transferring the securities to SYEM. The transfer is expected to be completed in October 2022. In connection with the sale of securities to SYEM, Mr. Jianguo Wei resigned from all his positions with the Company, and Mr. He Baobing and Mr. Cui Weiming were appointed as the Companys Directors as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, effective October 20, 2020. On October 22, 2020, the Board and the majority stockholder took action by written consent to approve an amendment to the Companys Articles of Incorporation to change its corporate name to Liaoning Shuiyun Qinghe Rice Industry Co., Ltd. and to change the ticker symbol of the Common Stock to SYQH. These changes were completed in February 2021. We are currently a shell company with no meaningful assets or operations other than our efforts to identify and merge with an operating company. Our principal business is to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. Based on proposed business activities, we are a blank check company. We intend to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as it is subject to those requirements. 1 Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business. We are in active discussions with an operating company for a potential business combination. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate such an acquisition or that following such acquisition we will be eligible to trade on a national securities exchange, or be quoted on the Over-the-Counter. The analysis of new business opportunities will be undertaken by or under the supervision of the Companys officers. We have unrestricted flexibility in seeking, analyzing and participating in potential business opportunities. In our efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, we will consider the following kinds of factors: Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products; Competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole; Strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment; Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds from the Registrant, from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources; The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced; The accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and Other relevant factors. In applying the foregoing criteria, no one of which will be controlling, management will attempt to analyze all factors and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Potentially available acquisition opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. We may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the business to be acquired. In evaluating a prospective business combination, we will conduct as extensive a due diligence review of potential targets as possible given the lack of information that may be available regarding private companies, our limited personnel and financial resources. We expect that our due diligence will encompass, among other things, meetings with the target businesss incumbent management and inspection of its facilities, as necessary, as well as a review of financial and other information, which is made available to us. This due diligence review will be conducted either by our management or by unaffiliated third parties we may engage. Our lack of funds and the lack of full-time management will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target business before we consummate a business combination. Management decisions, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys and the like which, if we had more funds available to us, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoters, owners, sponsors or others associated with the target business seeking our participation. 2 The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete a business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the indemnification and evaluation of a prospective business combination that is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us. Additionally, we are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities, which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. Our offices are located at No.3205-3209, South Building, No.3, Intelligence Industrial Park, No.39 Hulan West Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China and our telephone number at such address is + 86-135-8568-1065. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Aa smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide information pursuant to this Item. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our offices are located at No.3205-3209, South Building, No.3, Intelligence Industrial Park, No.39 Hulan West Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai, China. The premises are provided to us free of charge by our executive officers. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS To the knowledge of the Company, there is no litigation currently pending or contemplated against us, any of our officers or directors in their capacity as such or against any of our property. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 3 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Shares of our common stock are quoted on the OTC Pink under the symbol SYQH. As of July 14, 2022, the last closing price of our securities was $1.00, with little to no quoting activity, and there were 7,350,540 common shares outstanding. There is no established public trading market for our securities and a regular trading market may not develop, or if developed, may not be sustained. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and low closing prices for our common stock, as reported on the Pink Sheets. The following quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not represent actual transactions. Quarterly period High Low Fiscal year ended April 30, 2022: Fourth Quarter $ 1.00 $ 0.00 Third Quarter $ 0.31 $ 0.31 Second Quarter $ 1.00 $ 0.25 First Quarter $ 1.25 $ 0.27 Fiscal year ended April 30, 2021: Fourth Quarter $ 2.00 $ 0.55 Third Quarter $ 1.20 $ 0.51 Second Quarter $ 1.50 $ 0.20 First Quarter $ 0.85 $ 0.42 Approximate Number of Holders of Common Stock As of July 15, 2022, there were approximately 167 shareholders of record of our common stock. Such number does not include any shareholders holding shares in nominee or street name. Dividends Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors. We paid no dividends during the periods reported herein, nor do we anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Equity Compensation Plan Information None. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. 4 Where You Can Find Additional Information We are a reporting company and file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. For further information with respect to the Company, you may read and copy its reports, proxy statements and other information, at the SEC public reference rooms at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents by writing to the SEC and paying a fee for the copying cost. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the public reference rooms. The Companys SEC filings are also available at the SECs web site at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We are currently a shell company with no meaningful assets or operations other than our efforts to identify and merge with an operating company. Our principal business is to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. Based on proposed business activities, we are a blank check company. We intend to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as it is subject to those requirements. We are generally in discussions with an operating business regarding potential acquisition or other business opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully acquire such company or any company in the near future. Historical Background Historically, we were a wood products company that had been in business since 1980. Our business fluctuated over the years. We were almost wholly dependent on sales to The Home Depot, Inc. As discussed below in Discontinued Operations, on September 2, 2003, we discontinued our wood products business. Discontinued Operations On September 2, 2003, we terminated our business relationship with Home Depot due to increased difficulties in transacting business with such company on a profitable basis. These difficulties included Home Depots prohibition against price increases, despite increases in our costs of production, a diminution in the Home Depot territories to which we were allowed to sell product, and Home Depots demands regarding returns of ordered products that we were unwilling to accede to for economic reasons. General At present, we are seeking other business opportunities, but we may not be able to identify any such opportunities, and even if we are able to identify other opportunities, we may not be able to capitalize on them or they may not be profitable. 5 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires our management to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements, including the notes thereto, and related disclosures of commitments and contingencies, if any. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require the more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of financial statements, including the following: Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes , using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, requires us to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination based upon the technical merits of the position. If the more-likely-than-not threshold is met, we must measure the tax position to determine the amount to recognize in our financial statements. We performed a review of our material tax positions in accordance with recognition and measurement standards established by ASC Topic 740 and concluded we had no unrecognized tax benefit that would affect the effective tax rate if recognized for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021. We include interest and penalties arising from the underpayment of income taxes, if any, in our statements of operations in other general and administrative expenses. As of April 30, 2022 and 2021, we had no accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the accompanying financial statements, primarily due to their short-term nature. Results of Operations Since we discontinued our wood products business in 2003, we have had no revenues, including during the years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021. 6 Year Ended April 30, 2022 Compared to the Year Ended April 30, 2021 Operating Expenses . Our operating expenses primarily consisted of fees and expenses related to complying with our ongoing SEC reporting requirements, which have consisted of accounting fees and filing fees etc. For the year ended April 30, 2022, total operating expenses amounted to $71,309 as compared to $50,293 for the year ended April 30, 2021, an increase of $21,016 or 41.8%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in accounting service charges. Net Loss. During the years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, we had net loss of $71,309 and $50,293, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2022, we did not have any cash, while, we had liabilities of $138,513, and had a working capital deficit of $138,513. We expect to incur continued losses during the fiscal year of 2023, possibly even longer. For the years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, net cash used in operating activities amounted to $785 and $0, respectively. We expect to require working capital of approximately $50,000 over the next 12 months to meet our financial obligations. For the years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, non-cash used in investing and financing activities was $0 and $61,839, respectively. Non-cash investing and financing activities for the year ended April 30, 2021, consisted of the conversion of related party payable to equity. We are a shell company with no revenue generating activities. We anticipate that our operating activities will generate negative net cash flows during the fiscal year of 2023. The success of our business plan is dependent upon the availability of additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to management as we are not generating sufficient revenues from our business operations. Our sources of capital in the past have included the sale of equity securities, which include common stock sold in private transactions and stockholder advances. There can be no assurance that we can raise such additional capital resources on satisfactory terms. We believe that our current cash and other sources of liquidity discussed above are adequate to support operations for at least the next 12 months. We anticipate continuing to rely on equity sales of our common shares and shareholder advances in order to continue to fund our business operations. Issuances of additional shares will result in dilution to our existing shareholders. There is no assurance that we will achieve any additional sales of our equity securities or arrange for debt or other financing to fund our plan of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that constitute off-balance sheet arrangements. 7