Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Historical Background Historically, we were a wood products company that had been in business since 1980. Our business fluctuated over the years. We were almost wholly dependent on sales to The Home Depot, Inc. As discussed below in Discontinued Operations, on September 2, 2003, we discontinued our wood products business. Discontinued Operations On September 2, 2003, we terminated our business relationship with Home Depot due to increased difficulties in transacting business with such company on a profitable basis. These difficulties included Home Depots prohibition against price increases, despite increases in our costs of production, a diminution in the Home Depot territories to which we were allowed to sell product, and Home Depots demands regarding returns of ordered products that we were unwilling to accede to for economic reasons. General At present, we are seeking other business opportunities, but we may not be able to identify any such opportunities, and even if we are able to identify other opportunities, we may not be able to capitalize on them or they may not be profitable. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires our management to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements, including the notes thereto, and related disclosures of commitments and contingencies, if any. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require the more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of financial statements, including the following: Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes , using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, requires us to determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination based upon the technical merits of the position. If the more-likely-than-not threshold is met, we must measure the tax position to determine the amount to recognize in our consolidated financial statements. We performed a review of our material tax positions in accordance with recognition and measurement standards established by ASC Topic 740 and concluded we had no unrecognized tax benefit that would affect the effective tax rate if recognized for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2020 and 2019. We include interest and penalties arising from the underpayment of income taxes, if any, in our consolidated statements of operations in general and administrative expenses. As of and April 30, 2020 and 2019, we had no accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments consist of cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses. The carrying amount of these financial instruments approximates fair value because of the short-term nature of these items. Fiscal year ended April 30, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019 Since we discontinued our wood products business, there were no sales from continuing operations during the years ended April 30, 2020 and 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $47,964 during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2020, representing a decrease of $5,095, or 10%, over $53,059 during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019. The decrease during the current period is primarily attributable to a decrease in legal professional fees during the current period. Interest income for the year ended April 30, 2020 was zero as compared to $133 for the year ended April 30, 2019. 5 For fiscal year ended April 30, 2020, we had net loss of $47,964, as compared to a net loss of $52,926 for the prior fiscal year. The decrease during in net loss during the current year is primarily attributable to a decrease in legal professional fees. Liquidity and capital resources As at April 30, 2020 and 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $785. Our operating activities used no cash during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $22,855 during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019. This decrease was due to all company expenses being paid by the Companys CEO and related party, Jianguo Wei. Since terminating our wood products business in September 2003, we have not yet found a suitable business opportunity or merger candidate because of the limited cash resources available to us and the limited and sporadic trading market for our common stock. We continue to explore various business opportunities that may be available to us. At the present time, we have no commitments for capital expenditures and do not anticipate making any such expenditure unless and until we establish a business or acquire an operating business. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that constitute off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued disclosure guidance for critical accounting policies. The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that require the application of managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to these financial statements. Currently, based on the Companys limited activity, we do not believe that there are any accounting policies that require the application of difficult, subjective or complex judgments.