Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and Business. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Corporate information Our predecessor company, TeleNav, Inc., incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1999 and we incorporated in the State of Delaware in 2009 as TNAV Holdings, Inc. Pursuant to stockholder approvals received in December 2009, our predecessor company merged with and into us on April 15, 2010. As the entity surviving the merger, upon completion of the merger, we changed our name to TeleNav, Inc. Our executive offices are located at 1130 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086, and our telephone number is (408) 245-3800. Our website address is www.telenav.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Form10-K. We file or furnish periodic reports, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at http://investor.telenav.com/financials.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. In this Form 10-K, we, us and our refer to TeleNav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The names TeleNav , TeleNav GPS Navigator, GPS Navigator, TeleNav Track, TeleNav Vehicle Tracker, TeleNav Asset Tracker, TeleNav Shotgun, TeleNav Vehicle Manager, ONMYWAY , OMW, Sipity, Always Find Your Way, Whereboutz , Smart Planner, My Mileage, TeleNav Navigator, Evie, Jungle, MyTies and TeleNav LocalAdvantage and our logo are our trademarks. All other trademarks and trade names appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Our mission is to help people be more productive, be less stressed, and have more fun when theyre on the go. Our personalized navigation services get you and get you there and help on-the-go people make daily decisions about where to go, how to get there, what to do, and even when to goand we make it possible across mobile devices, mobile applications, wireless carriers, automobiles, and enterprises, both domestically and abroad. In the three months ended June 30, 2011, we had a monthly average of 24.6 million paying end users. As a leading provider of personalized navigation and location based services, or LBS, we are well-positioned to capitalize on growing market opportunities to reach new customers and serve more people in more places with features such as location based search and voice-guided navigation. By using the most integral tools of the daily lives of people on the go, their mobile phones and vehicles, people can access our personalized navigation and location based services almost anytime and anywhere to help them quickly decide where to go, how to get there, what to do, and even when to goin both personal and professional settings. Consumers, wireless carriers, enterprises and automobile manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, are our customers. We generate revenue from recurring service subscriptions, software licenses, premium services and mobile advertising and commerce. End users with recurring subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services, or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (4) based on usage or other basis. We also derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications, as well as through premium services and mobile commerce sold to consumers and mobile advertising sold to advertisers and advertising agencies. Through our hosted service delivery model, we provide our solutions to end users and customers through the networks of leading wireless carriers in the United States, including AT&T Mobility LLC, or AT&T, Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint, T-Mobile USA, Inc., or T-Mobile, and U.S. Cellular Corporation, or U.S. Cellular, as well as through certain wireless carriers in other countries. Our flexible and proprietary platform enables us to efficiently reach and retain tens of millions of end users, across more than 600 types of mobile phones, all major mobile phone operating systems and a broad range of wireless network protocols. This platform provides data and analytics to create more personalized experiences for mobile applications, location based advertising and customer lifecycle management. Our fiscal year ends June 30. In this Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, 2010 and 2011 as fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Our total revenue grew from $110.9 million in fiscal 2009 to $171.2 million in fiscal 2010 and to $210.5 million in fiscal 2011. Our net income also increased from $29.6 million in fiscal 2009 to $41.4 million in fiscal 2010 and to $42.6 million in fiscal 2011. Industry background The mobile phone is the most widely used portable communication device in the world and continues to play an increasingly prominent role in consumers and business professionals lives. Significant improvements in device technologies and the deployment of advanced mobile wireless networks have not only enhanced mobile phones performance, but also made possible the integration of features and functions such as email, instant messaging, Internet browsing and various forms of multimedia. Historically, these features and functions were only available on Internet connected PCs. The inclusion of location determination technologies, such as the 1 Table of Contents satellite based Global Positioning System, or GPS, in mobile phones has allowed location data to be used to enhance and expand the services that can be delivered to mobile phone users and contributed to the emergence of the LBS market. The LBS market consists of advanced mobile Internet and data applications that leverage location information to provide mobile phone users with location specific and personalized features and functions. LBS that incorporate location information include turn by turn navigation, route planning, real time traffic alerts and points of interest, or POI, searches. Beyond these navigation specific services, new mobile LBS, such as location based advertising, commerce and social networking, have emerged. Heightened consumer awareness of the scope and benefits of these services are leading to increased demand. These dynamics result, in part, from the availability of advanced GPS enabled mobile phones and wireless networks as well as wireless carriers strong marketing efforts as they seek to increase revenue from data-centric applications, such as LBS. Advanced, GPS enabled mobile phones and wireless networks are proliferating . In an effort to remain competitive, mobile phone manufacturers and wireless carriers are rapidly introducing mobile phones with enhanced features and functions, including GPS. Mobile phones that incorporate GPS technology are typically capable of supporting advanced mobile phone operating systems and rich data applications because of other enhancements, such as faster processors, increased memory and larger high resolution screens. Wireless carriers continue to invest hundreds of billions of dollars deploying 3G and 4G wireless networks worldwide. In combination, these advancements and investments have changed the way consumers access and interact with Internet based content and services, effectively bringing the richness of the PC based Internet experience to the mobile phone and enabling the emergence of LBS. The LBS market offers multiple opportunities for expansion . The enhanced convenience and utility associated with LBS is driving rapid adoption and growth of the LBS market. For example, mobile navigation, the most popular LBS application today, makes it easier for consumers to find their way, including driving from one location to another. LBS are not limited to mobile phone based navigation services. LBS enable consumers to enjoy benefits of an enhanced mobile Internet experience, such as location based advertising, commerce and social networking on their mobile phones and on other mobile devices. LBS also enables consumers to enjoy an enriched navigation experience in their cars. Similarly, services such as mobile resource management, or MRM, enable enterprises to leverage the benefits of LBS to more effectively and efficiently manage their mobile resources. In response to consumer demand for affordable and easy to use LBS, LBS providers are developing and introducing new applications that integrate location information in innovative ways. For example, a consumer can use a mobile phone almost anytime and anywhere to help them quickly decide where to go, how to get there, what to do, and even when to go. As LBS applications increasingly incorporate consumers locations and preferences, targeted mobile advertising and commerce will become more compelling and valuable to advertisers and marketers. In a similar response to consumer demand, automobile manufacturers are introducing affordable navigation units as a central component of on-board entertainment and information systems. These integrated units extend beyond traditional navigation units by combining audio and voice capabilities with wireless network connectivity to deliver real time LBS, such as traffic, weather information and other connected data. Enterprises are seeking solutions that enable them to cost effectively and efficiently manage their mobile resources, as well as their company data, communications and work flow. Historically, these solutions required the deployment of costly applications and hardware, primarily limiting the use of these solutions to large enterprises. The development and widespread availability of LBS provides enterprises of all sizes with a viable alternative, MRM. Enterprise grade LBS solutions can help increase the adoption of mobile business applications. MRM solutions give business customers visibility over their mobile assets while enabling the movement of real time information like work orders and proof of service processes. 2 Table of Contents Industry challenges Technological advancements have led consumers to expect immediate access to the latest, most accurate information, real time responses and greater convenience at lower cost in both their personal and professional lives. At the same time, wireless carriers are facing pressure to increase revenue and increase subscriber loyalty. As a result, wireless carriers are investing heavily in wireless network infrastructure and partnering with handset OEMs, application providers and mobile operating system providers, to keep pace with end user demand and the latest technologies. Challenges facing end users . Historically, consumers relied on paper maps for navigation and paper directories for limited information about POIs. More recently, many consumers began to rely on directions they could download and print from the Internet. However, these solutions often require advanced planning, are cumbersome and dangerous to use while driving and cannot provide updated directions based on route conditions or reroute a driver when he or she is lost. The increased use of GPS technology in various consumer applications addressed many of the shortcomings of these traditional navigation solutions. Personal navigation devices, or PNDs, require dedicated navigation only hardware. Most GPS based solutions also rely on mapping and POI information that is static, requiring consumers to expend time, effort and money to periodically refresh the content and software. Due to the general lack of upgradeability, these solutions become obsolete very quickly, requiring consumers to replace the device if they want to take advantage of many of the latest features and functions. Enterprises also face the challenge of managing the complexity of their organizations and increasing the productivity of their workforces and assets in a cost effective manner. Addressing basic needs such as locating, tracking and dispatching workforces, as well as delivering time sensitive information to and from the field, is often difficult and expensive. Developing solutions that securely link enterprises information technology infrastructure with diverse mobile devices in the field typically requires costly, time consuming implementations that rely largely on customized components. Challenges facing automobile manufacturers. The automobile industry is experiencing significant consumer demands resulting from the distributed internet. Current on-board navigation systems are limited to the vehicle in which they are installed and the mapping and POI data is static, requiring time, cost and effort to update. They are also considered expensive and as a result suffer from relatively low rates of adoption by consumers. Manufacturers that can enhance the in-car experience with mobile connectivity and improved infotainment capabilities are finding greater acceptance from consumers, but the delivery of these capabilities is technically challenging and not a traditional part of the auto manufacturers capabilities. This challenge is driving auto manufacturers to seek new partners to create differentiated in-car experiences. Challenges facing wireless carriers . Wireless carriers are under pressure to increase revenue and enhance subscriber loyalty. Their core voice businesses are threatened by several key factors, including strong competition in a heavily penetrated market, a lack of subscriber loyalty due to phone number portability and potential competition from free voice service providers. Compounding these issues, wireless carriers are under increasing pressure to invest in infrastructure to keep pace with consumer expectations and the demand for low cost, reliable and increasingly faster network service. Additionally, some mobile phone manufacturers and mobile phone operating system providers are seeking to develop direct relationships with consumers, which could weaken the existing relationship wireless carriers share with their subscribers. For example, Google, Inc., or Google, offers free voice driven, turn by turn, mobile navigation software on Android phones, along with access to the Android Marketplace with tens of thousands of additional LBS applications, including local search, traffic information and events offerings. Nokia Corporation, or Nokia, provides a download for its latest version Nokia Maps on its smart phone products to consumers free of charge. Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, also provides free turn by turn navigation software on its Windows Mobile operating system. Although wireless carriers receive revenue from data networks used to provide these services, these services may cause wireless carriers to reduce the monthly fees to subscribers for these services in order to compete for advertising revenue. These dynamics are driving wireless carriers to seek innovative ways to differentiate themselves by delivering more compelling applications and services. 3 Table of Contents Our competitive strengths We are one of the early pioneers in LBS and have a 12-year history of developing and delivering advanced mobile navigation and other LBS solutions. The breadth and depth of our technical and market expertise has enabled us to develop robust LBS, attract a large end user base and establish deep relationships with wireless carriers and other members of the LBS value chain, including mobile phone manufacturers and content, applications and technology providers. Large and growing end user base . In the three months ended June 30, 2011, we had a monthly average of 24.6 million paying end users. Our large and growing end user base, and our experience supporting a broad range of mobile phones, mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols, enables us to realize economies of scale and deliver incremental value to existing and future end users and our wireless carrier and other customers, such as third party content and advertising providers. By delivering our services to millions of end users, we can leverage our product development costs and expertise more effectively and efficiently. The potential returns to third party content and advertising providers are higher across a larger end user base, which makes them more inclined to partner with us. Strong and deep partnerships with key members of the LBS value chain . Our LBS are deployed by 14 wireless carriers in 29 countries, including leading wireless carriers in the United States. Our wireless carrier customers continue to make investments that foster our long term relationships because our LBS assist them in increasing their data average revenue per user, or ARPU, and strengthen their subscriber relationships. We work closely with our wireless carrier customers during their product development and testing cycles and undergo a comprehensive certification process. Our back-end systems are tightly integrated with those of our wireless carrier customers, which enables the seamless delivery of our services from product launch to billing. We also collaborate closely with mobile phone manufacturer and wireless carrier customers so that our services work in many countries and on a wide range of mobile phones and wireless network protocols. We also have strong and deep relationships with key players across the LBS value chain, including application developers, map and other content providers and voice recognition platform providers. These relationships allow us to develop and deliver high quality, robust LBS to our end users. Leveraged distribution channels to expand user base and promote distribution capability. Our hosted delivery model enables our wireless carrier customers the option to brand and market a customized version of our LBS and leverage our infrastructure, partnerships and expertise. Our offerings enhance subscriber loyalty and can increase revenue for our wireless carrier customers while helping us to drive adoption of our LBS without incurring significant sales and marketing costs. Traditionally, we have relied on the substantial resources of our wireless carrier customers for our marketing and sales efforts. We also use our wireless carrier customers infrastructure to assist in validation and provisioning of and to bill for our services. Our wireless carrier customers may offer our services on a standalone basis or bundled with other voice and data services. We also offer our services under our own TeleNav brand and have been increasing the use of our brand more recently. We believe whether under our own brand or the carriers brand, the provision of our services to end users results in an alignment of mutual interests with our carrier customers to attract and retain subscribers. In addition, with the continuing industry shift to more open platform distribution of applications, TeleNavs expansion of its own brand may provide for better positioning and name recognition for capturing new end users in the future. Our services and products We provide a range of LBS for consumers, enterprises, automobile manufacturers and OEM customers. Our core LBS include mobile navigation for consumers and MRM for enterprises. We are also extending our core LBS to new device platforms, such as tablet devices, as well as developing new LBS for mobile phones, including location based mobile advertising, commerce and social networking. 4 Table of Contents Mobile navigation . We deliver our solutions through our location based technology, applications and service delivery platform, or SDP, which are tightly integrated with a broad range of mobile phones, mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols. GPS Navigator is our flagship voice guided, real time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service that helps consumers quickly decide what to do, where to go and how to get there. Accessed primarily through mobile phones, this service delivers many innovative features and functions and is available to end users both on a white label basis, such as Sprint Navigation and AT&T Navigator, and under the TeleNav brand. GPS Navigator utilizes accurate, updated information to provide end users with an enhanced mobile navigation experience. Core functions: Enhanced connected features: voice guided, turn by turn directions with updated maps; 3D moving maps; automatic rerouting for missed turns; over 20 million searchable POIs in North America, including restaurants, hotels, ATMs, Wi-Fi hotspots and gas stations; search along route; and integration with contacts. multi-route capability; one-box search; real time traffic, gas prices and weather information; voice recognition for address input and local business and POI searches; traffic optimized routing, intelligent one-click navigation rerouting and updated estimated time of arrival based on current traffic flow; POI reviews, including end user generated reviews and POI review sharing; real time traffic alerts specific to a chosen route; preplanned routes through our website that can be saved, downloaded to mobile phones and accessed with a one-click routing function; and address sharing. We offer our mobile navigation services to customers in a number of ways. We distribute our services through our wireless carrier partners and directly to consumers through mobile application stores and marketplaces. We provide our services for a monthly fee and more recently have begun to provide some of our services to consumers for free, the opportunities to purchase premium versions of the product. The type of distribution from free to premium is referred to by us as the freemium model of distribution. This ability to serve the customer advertising is also included in our free products. Success with this freemium model depends upon our ability to generate a substantial active user base and to generate revenues from advertising and conversion of users from free to premium subscription. Mobile Resource Management . We offer enterprises an integrated suite of MRM solutions to better manage mobile workforces and fleets and improve productivity. Depending on their specific needs and requirements, enterprises may use one or all of our MRM solutions. Our TeleNav Enterprise Solutions include our flagship TeleNav Track service, as well as TeleNav Vehicle Manager, TeleNav Vehicle Tracker and TeleNav Asset Tracker. Our MRM solutions allow enterprises to monitor and manage mobile workforces and assets by using our LBS platform to track job status and the location of workers, field assets and equipment. TeleNav Track enables two-way data communications between an enterprises back-end systems and its mobile workforces, providing more effective and efficient management of assignments. Workers in the field using TeleNav Track can easily 5 Table of Contents transmit information wirelessly to the enterprises back-end systems via our customizable workflow and flexible forms from their mobile phones. Key features and functions of our MRM solutions include: voice guided, turn by turn directions to efficiently navigate workers to their destinations; real time and historical reports of the location of the mobile workforce and routes taken and transit times as compared to optimal routes and ideal transit times; updated job status information to improve efficiency and productivity in connection with assignments; automatic alerts when workers or vehicles enter or exit a specific area, have stopped or are speeding; customizable wireless forms to capture field information and improve communication, including job details, signatures and barcode scans; wireless timecards to improve payroll accuracy and workforce time and attendance; and integration with an enterprises back-end systems and applications, such as accounting, billing and dispatching applications that together support business process mobilization through the movement of real time information. Automotive on-board and connected navigation . We have been working with certain automobile manufacturers and OEM customers to provide our mobile navigation services through on-board and connected systems. Our technology powers automotive navigation services that provide accurate, easy to use and connected LBS to drivers at a low cost. Our first automotive navigation service became available as a premium option in the 2010 Ford Focus and Taurus models sold in North America, and it continues to expand to other Ford and Lincoln vehicles today. By combining Microsofts SYNC and other connected technologies with our GPS technologies in these vehicles, drivers are able to utilize their cars existing radio screen and speaker system in conjunction with their mobile phone to utilize our LBS. In addition, Ford has utilized our on-board automotive navigation product in the next generation Ford SYNC platform, which includes MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. Ford began shipping this product in certain North American vehicles with the 2011 model year, with planned availability in selected international markets thereafter. Location based mobile advertising . In fiscal 2010, we launched mobile location based advertising services that deliver location based and time sensitive mobile advertising with features such as location specific sponsored listings, content, coupons and dining menus. We currently provide mobile search based advertising for our key wireless carrier customers, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and U.S. Cellular. We have access to over 800,000 advertisers through a network of providers and we have created unique ad units for the mobile space, including the drive to advertising unit. This is an ad unit for which advertisers pay when users, in response to an advertisement, click a drive to button that provides the user a GPS navigation session that takes them directly to the advertised location. End user billing and support End user billing . End users are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier, which may offer our services on a standalone basis or bundled with other voice and data services. The wireless carriers bill subscribers monthly. We and our wireless carrier customers may offer subscribers a 30-day free trial for our service. We believe that the wireless carrier billing makes our services more appealing to consumers and enterprises as they are not required to pay a separate monthly charge to a different vendor. For a small minority of end users who purchase our LBS through our website or in application stores, we bill their credit cards directly on a monthly basis, or utilize the application store billing process. End user support . Our wireless carrier customers generally provide first level support to their subscribers if the wireless carrier provides our services on a white label basis. We provide secondary support for issues that cannot be resolved by our wireless carrier customers. If the service is provided under the TeleNav brand, we 6 Table of Contents generally provide all support to end users. For our GPS Navigator support functions, we utilize a third party customer support service provider located in the Philippines that provides live customer support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We provide training and technical management to their employees and assist with problem resolution. We also maintain our own call center available during business hours that generally focuses on support escalations for all our services and products. Platform and architecture Our hosted SDP and client software enable us to deliver our end user interface as well as the features and functions of our LBS on GPS enabled mobile phones and other GPS enabled devices. Service delivery platform . Our hosted SDP is a modular and scalable platform that enables us to bring different types of information together to respond to voice or data requests by our end users. Our SDP manages different engines, such as mapping, routing, converting addresses into geographic coordinates (known as geocoding), local searches, location specific alerts, traffic alerts, searches along the route, gas prices and weather, as well as our proprietary account authentication system and other functionalities. Our SDP communicates with our client software in mobile phones or other devices over our wireless carrier customers networks. Our SDP is designed to easily add capacity for our rapidly expanding end user base through the addition of individual service elements, such as application servers or database nodes. We have developed many proprietary technologies to differentiate our LBS offerings. For example, our routing engine produces fast and accurate results, our content search engine and address capture engine to provide end users with accurate and relevant results, and we provide voice activated search and address input that is customized for street names. In addition, our SDP has the following advantages that further strengthen our position in the LBS industry: Tight integration with many wireless carrier networks . Our SDP allows us to operate effectively with the networks of our wireless carrier customers, minimize downtime and achieve efficient server load balancing. Our SDP is integrated with our wireless carrier customers back-end systems, such as billing and authentication, permitting rapid end user verification and improved response times. For example, we maintain a dedicated connection from our data center to one of our wireless carrier customers data centers, which enables a faster, superior service. Integration with a large number of third party content providers . Our SDP is integrated with many third party content providers through our proprietary applications. This integration facilitates a high quality end user experience by enabling the delivery of rich local information and more accurate search results by removing duplicate and conflicting data, and providing the flexibility to incorporate a wide array of content, including POI, traffic, gas prices and weather information. The flexibility of our SDP enables us to quickly add new content providers and meet evolving market demands. Scalability to other applications and business models . Our SDP is scalable, which allows us to address rapid growth in our end user base. For example, our SDP is able to support different applications and business models such as our GPS Navigator, our wireless carrier customers white label navigation services, TeleNav Track, and location based mobile advertising. Client software Client application approach . Our client application approach is to deliver a flexible client application environment, which enables us to quickly and effectively support different mobile phones and integrate with the continually evolving feature sets they include to create a better user experience. Our client software interfaces with our SDP to access updated information and data, routing and other services without using device memory for data intensive functions such as map and POI storage. Our client software conducts core navigation functions such as GPS data noise filtering, 3D moving map generation, and user friendly audio and graphical guidance generation. Our client software also enables our user interface to capture end user requests. 7 Table of Contents Intuitive user interface . Our LBS provide one-button access to local information, an intuitive user interface and consistent features and functions regardless of the mobile phone, mobile phone operating system or wireless network protocol the end user is utilizing. For many mobile phones, we also offer customized user interfaces and features and functions based on the feature preferences of our wireless carrier customers, including the ability to obtain directions from the end users contact data on the mobile phone without having to retype the address. Easy feature and functions upgrades . We can automatically provide over the air updates of enhanced versions of our service to mobile phones that use our recent client applications, without the need to upload new client software. Cached data for operation with limited connectivity . Our client applications are also built to address the realities of wireless networks. Our client applications allow us to provide simplified navigation services even if users enter an area of no or limited network connectivity by caching the route and navigation information along the route at the beginning of the trip. Technology Our proprietary technologies enable us to provide our LBS to millions of end users, across hundreds of mobile phones as well as all major mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols. Our scalable LBS includes technologies that are deployed on the client and in the back-end to deliver an integrated service. Our client technologies include a navigation and guidance engine and tools allowing us to efficiently develop and deploy new applications to mobile phones. In addition, we have developed a cross platform framework and proprietary markup language that allow us to extend our LBS applications across different mobile phone operating systems more efficiently, eliminating the need for costly and time consuming redesign and development. In Europe and Canada, end users can select a language and our client software interface and related services will be delivered in that language over the wireless network. Our client application development processes, which include design, porting and publication processes, allow us to extend our services effectively and efficiently to different mobile phones across multiple mobile phone operating systems, wireless network protocols, languages and countries. Our processes also allow us to tailor our services to different mobile phone operating systems and address different feature preferences of our wireless carrier customers. We work with our wireless carrier customers and mobile phone manufacturers prior to launch of new devices to ensure our end users have an easy to discover intuitive product experience. Our back-end technologies include our geographic information system, or GIS, engines for local search, mobile voice recognition, geo alert and advanced geo data aggregation, traffic and a local advertising platform. We have developed customized voice recognition technology built upon a third party voice recognition engine to serve the specific needs of navigation services and LBS customers. We are continuing to leverage our existing back-end technologies for deployment to the automobile manufacturer and OEM solution opportunities. We are also adapting existing technology in new ways to expand the connectivity and service offerings for in-car experiences, including interaction between end users mobile devices and automobile hardware such as displays, sensors and audio systems. We have developed a mobile search technology that focuses on information with localized relevance and accuracy to address the needs of mobile phone users and the relatively small screens of mobile phones. We have developed a proprietary GIS which provides fast route and map generation while optimizing the route based on current traffic conditions. Because our proprietary GIS uses less computing resources, these efficiencies enable us to scale our servers more economically. We have developed an application hosting and provisioning system that we integrate with the billing systems of our wireless carrier customers. Our application hosting and provisioning system provides a range of billing options designed to maximize the attractiveness of our services to end users with different payment 8 Table of Contents preferences. We believe that this system allows us to deepen our relationships with our wireless carrier customers. This system is also integrated with third party verification services to allow us to bill our end users credit cards if a wireless carrier customer is not involved. Infrastructure and operations Our end users rely on our services while on the road. As a result, we strive to ensure the continuous availability of our services through our high quality hosting platform and operational excellence. Data center facilities . We have developed our infrastructure with the goal of maximizing the availability of our applications, which are hosted on a highly scalable and available network located in two secure third party facilities in Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California. We have a disaster recovery facility in Sacramento, California that is currently able to deploy our services to end users in the case of a prolonged outage. We have entered into service agreements with Internap Network Services Corporation, CenturyLink, formerly known as Qwest Communication Corporation, RagingWire Enterprise Solutions, Inc., and Equinix, Inc., in connection with our data center facilities in Santa Clara, Sunnyvale and Sacramento, California, respectively. Pursuant to the service agreements, we have leased facility space, power, cooling and Internet connectivity for a term of one, two and three years, respectively, with an annual option to renew for additional one year terms. Hosting infrastructure . Our hosting operations incorporate industry standard hardware and software, including the Apache Tomcat open source operating system and Oracle and MySQL databases, into a flexible, scalable architecture. Elements of our infrastructure can be replaced or added with no interruption in service, helping to ensure that any single hardware failure will not cause a broad service outage. Our architecture enables us to host multiple wireless carriers and millions of end users on a single server farm and is designed to use inexpensive, industry standard hardware. Our infrastructure is also designed to support the varying needs of different wireless carriers. Service level commitment . The combination of our hosting infrastructure and flexible architecture enables us to offer our wireless carrier customers at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. We target achieving an even higher level of service availability. However, we have in the past and may in the future experience service outages. Performance monitoring . We continuously monitor and optimize the performance of our SDP. We have built a custom application common logging infrastructure that continuously records the transactional behavior of the system, which can be reviewed to address any anomalies or issues. We have also built or licensed centralized performance consoles, automated load distribution tools and various self-diagnostic tools and programs. We have live performance monitoring 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to promptly identify and address any technical issues. Research and development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development and testing of our services and products. Our engineering team has deep expertise and experience in GPS and wireless and connected services and we have a number of personnel with longstanding experience with LBS applications and scaling hosted service models. Our current research and development efforts are focused on: improving and expanding features, functionality and performance of our existing services; developing applications, services and products for new mobile phones, mobile phone operating systems and emerging wireless network technologies, and developing our technology for automobiles; and developing key technology and content to reduce third party costs. 9 Table of Contents Our development strategy is to identify features, services and products that are, or are expected to be, needed or desired by our end users. We also work closely with our wireless carrier customers to develop and offer service features that are attractive to their subscriber base, which are complementary to their other offered applications, and strategies to address their need to increase subscribers and revenue. As of June 30, 2011, our research and development team consisted of 750 people, 213 of whom are located in Sunnyvale, California and 537 of whom are located in Beijing, Shanghai and Xian, China. We have been successful in creating cross border capabilities in the United States and China for high value engineering at lower cost. Our U.S. and China research and development operations function together on service and product development and extension of our existing services to new mobile phones. Our research and development expenses were $23.5 million, $41.6 million and $56.5 million for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, respectively. We expect that the number of our research and development personnel will continue to increase over time and that the absolute dollar amount of our research and development expenses will also increase. Marketing and sales We rely on the extensive distribution channels of our wireless carrier customers to expand the adoption of our LBS. In addition, we sell our LBS to end users through our website and mobile phone application stores, such as Apples App Store. We focus the majority of our marketing efforts on supporting our wireless carrier customers marketing programs to promote our LBS to their subscribers through either our wireless carrier customers white label or our own branded version of our solution. This strategy enables us to leverage the marketing resources of our wireless carrier customers and reduce our sales and marketing costs. Marketing . Our wireless carrier customers are our primary source of marketing to end users. They employ a variety of marketing programs to sell our LBS, including promotion in retail stores and through their sales forces, and through various media and Internet advertising. We also implement selected public relations activities to support the launch of our LBS on new devices or the release of new LBS. We typically provide original marketing and promotion materials, as well as electronic sales tools, to the wireless carrier customers with which we work closely to drive the adoption of our LBS. We also provide a limited number of demonstration subscriptions for use by our wireless carrier customers sales and marketing personnel. Our wireless carrier customers generally determine the distribution channels to be used and ensure that the marketing materials are accessible to their direct and indirect sales forces, which may include third party distribution vendors. We often assist our wireless carrier customers with trade shows and other events at their request. We also provide our wireless carrier customers with access to application demonstrations and self-guided training. In addition, we have begun to focus certain marketing efforts for our services on distribution in the Apple, Android and Blackberry application marketplaces. These efforts are focused on building our direct relationship with consumers and the TeleNav brand generally. Sales . Our wireless carrier customers are primarily responsible for obtaining our end users through their sales and marketing efforts to their existing and potential subscribers. For example, mobile phones enabled with our LBS are sold in AT&Ts direct channels, such as retail stores, and through the AT&T website and indirect channels, such as national retail partners and indirect dealers. Certain of our wireless carrier customers offer our LBS as part of a bundle of services, such as Sprints Simply Everything plans. Bundling of our LBS with voice and/or data packages has led to substantial increases in the number of our new end users. At June 30, 2011, we had a sales team consisting of 30 employees that focus on selling our MRM products and services to enterprise customers in conjunction with certain of our wireless carrier customers. In connection with sales efforts directed primarily at enterprises, we work closely with representatives of our wireless carrier customers, often participating in sales calls and other aspects of the selling process. In connection with sales efforts directed at auto manufacturers, we have a sales team that focuses on targeted customers and responds to requests for proposal and related sales opportunities. 10 Table of Contents Customers We primarily derive our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our LBS to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or voice services. We also derive revenue from Ford for the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications. End users may also subscribe to our services directly from our website, but these customers represent a small minority of our end users. We currently provide our LBS to customers in North America, Asia, Europe and South America. As of June 30, 2011, we had entered into agreements with 14 wireless carriers to provide our LBS in 29 countries. Our revenue from the United States constituted 96%, 97% and 96% of our total revenue for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, respectively. We are substantially dependent on Sprint and AT&T for our revenue. For fiscal 2009, 2010 and fiscal 2011, Sprint represented 61%, 55% and 42% of our revenue, respectively, and AT&T represented 29%, 34% and 37% of our revenue, respectively. We expect Sprint and AT&T to represent a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Effective September 1, 2010, we amended our agreement with Sprint to, among other things, extend the expiration of our agreement from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with Sprint, we are Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications until December 31, 2012 and Sprint is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to feature our navigation services more prominently than other navigation applications on handsets and to preload certain of our products on handsets. Sprint is entitled to expand the number of bundles in which our navigation services are offered. For bundled navigation services, Sprint will pay us a fixed annual fee, regardless of the number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds). In connection with our amended agreement with Sprint, we and Sprint have agreed to transition Sprint Navigation branded services to TeleNav branded navigation services. Other than with respect to the fixed fee arrangement for bundled navigation services, our agreement with Sprint will automatically renew on January 1, 2013 for successive 12-month periods unless either party provides notice of termination at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. Our agreement with Sprint also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. Additionally, Sprint may terminate the agreement if we effect a change in control transaction or become insolvent and, beginning June 30, 2012, Sprint may terminate our agreement for any reason by providing notice at least 30 business days prior to termination. As amended in January 2011, our agreement with AT&T expires in March 2013 and during the term of our agreement, we are the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. The agreement with AT&T will automatically renew at the end of the initial term for successive one year periods unless either party provides notice of termination at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. Our agreement with AT&T also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. We are also required to give AT&T preferred pricing during the term of our agreement. Under our agreements with Sprint and AT&T, we have obligations to indemnify Sprint and AT&T against, among other things, losses arising out of or in connection with any claim that our technology or services infringe third party proprietary or intellectual property rights. Our agreements with Sprint and AT&T may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or service infringed upon a third partys rights. We employ administrative, physical and technical safeguards to prevent unauthorized collection, access, use and disclosure of our end users private data and to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We do not use any end user data for direct marketing or promotions without the consent of the 11 Table of Contents user and do not store any user location information that is specifically identifiable with an end user except to deliver and support our services. We are also required to comply with our wireless carrier customers stringent privacy policies and standards. Intellectual property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services and products are available. We seek to patent key concepts, components, protocols, processes and other inventions. As of August 15, 2011, we held eight U.S. patents and 16 foreign patents expiring between April 11, 2020 and February 7, 2027, and have 89 U.S. and 116 foreign patent applications pending. Of the pending 89 U.S. patent applications, 86 are nonprovisional patent applications, which are patent applications that are examined on their merits by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and three are provisional patent applications, which are filed for purposes of establishing priority but cannot result in an issued U.S. patent unless they are first converted to nonprovisional patents. These patents and patent applications cover claims associated with features and functions of our LBS and the technology platform we use to provide them. We have filed, and will continue to file, patent applications in the United States and other countries where there exists a strategic technological or business reason to do so. Any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. As of June 30, 2011, we owned the TeleNav and Whereboutz trademarks, registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also own the TeleNav and design logo registered trademark in the United Kingdom and European Union. We have several unregistered trademarks, including TeleNav GPS Navigator, TeleNav Track, TeleNav Vehicle Tracker, TeleNav Asset Tracker, TeleNav Vehicle Manager, ONMYWAY, OMW, Sipity, TeleNav LocalAdvantage, Always Find Your Way, Smart Planner, My Mileage, Evie, Jungle and MyTies. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive with ours or that infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on the success of our legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We also enter into various types of licensing agreements to obtain access to technology or data that end users utilize in connection with our LBS. Our contracts with certain licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are payable regardless of the ultimate volume of revenue derived from the number of paying end users. Our most important agreements are with the providers of maps pursuant to which we generally pay a monthly fee per end user, a per transaction fee or a revenue sharing percentage for data provided based in each case upon a multi-tiered fee structure. We obtain map data pursuant to an agreement with Tele Atlas North America, Inc., now known as TomTom Maps, dated July 1, 2009, as amended. Our agreement with TomTom Maps has an initial term of five years (except for off-board applications sold on Apples App Store and selected vehicle navigation system applications) and will automatically renew for each supported application for successive one year periods thereafter, unless either party provides written notice of termination at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the then-current term for each supported application. In September 2010, we amended our agreement with TomTom Maps, effective August 1, 2010, to change the fee structure for map and POI data 12 Table of Contents we use to provide our services for Sprints bundled offerings. Pursuant to the amended agreement, we will pay TomTom Maps a percentage of fees we collect from Sprint for basic navigation services and our gross advertising and mobile commerce revenue and a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium navigation services. We also agreed to pay TomTom Maps certain guaranteed minimum payments for such services. The expiration of the license period for navigation services provided for Sprints bundled offerings has been changed from July 1, 2014 to the earlier of December 31, 2012 or termination of our agreement with Sprint with respect to the those bundled services. We also obtain map data from Navigation Technologies Corporation, or NAVTEQ, pursuant to an agreement dated December 1, 2002. Our agreement with NAVTEQ had an initial term of one year which has been extended until January 31, 2012 and will automatically renew for successive one year periods thereafter unless either party provides written notice of termination at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the then current term. Our agreements with TomTom Maps and NAVTEQ also allow a party to terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. In addition, we obtain other data such as weather updates, gas prices, POI and traffic information from additional providers. Competition The market for development, distribution and sale of LBS is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Competitors are offering LBS navigation services that have similar functionality to ours for free. For example, Google offers free voice guided, turn by turn navigation as part of its release of Google Maps Navigation for mobile devices based on the Android 1.6 and higher operating system platform and Nokia provides a download for its latest version of Nokia Maps on its smartphones which also provides turn by turn navigation functions. Microsoft also provides a free turn by turn navigation solution with its Windows Mobile operating system. Competition from these free offerings may reduce our revenue and harm our business. If our wireless carrier customers can offer these LBS to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our subscription fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful. We compete in the LBS market and our primary competitors include providers of LBS such as Google, Microsoft, Navigon AG, or Navigon, Nokia, TeleCommunication Systems, or TCS, through its acquisition of Networks in Motion, or NIM, Telmap Ltd., or Telmap, and TomTom Maps; PND providers such as Garmin Ltd., or Garmin, and TomTom Maps; integrated navigation mobile phone providers such as Garmin and Nokia; providers of Internet and mobile based maps and directions such as AOL Corporation, or AOL, Mapquest, Inc., or Mapquest, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!, Inc., or Yahoo. We compete in the automotive navigation market with established automobile manufacturers and OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as Bosch, Garmin, TomTom Maps and NNG, or Nav N Go, as well as other competitors such as Google, Microsoft and TCS. Competition in our market is based primarily on product performance which includes features, functions, reliability, flexibility, scalability and interoperability; wireless carrier relationships; technological expertise, capabilities and innovation; price of services and products and total cost of ownership; brand recognition; and size and financial stability of operations. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors based upon the performance, reliability and breadth of our services and products and our technical experience. Some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, including with respect to the following: significantly greater revenue and financial resources; stronger brand and consumer recognition in a particular market segment, geographic region or worldwide; 13 Table of Contents the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier and handset manufacturer relationships; more financial flexibility and experience to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Employees As of August 31, 2011, we employed 1,039 people, including 775 in research and development, 131 in sales and marketing, 58 in customer support and data center operations and 75 in a general and administrative capacity. As of that date, we had 392 employees in the United States, 639 in China, 6 in the United Kingdom and 2 in Brazil. We also engage a number of temporary employees and consultants. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is a party to a collective bargaining agreement. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of June 30, 2011) and positions of our executive officers: Name Age Position Dr. HP Jin 47 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Douglas Miller 53 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Y.C. Chao 46 Vice President, Research and Development Salman Dhanani 38 Vice President, Products Loren Hillberg 53 General Counsel and Secretary Dariusz Paczuski 45 Vice President, Marketing Robert Rennard 66 Chief Technical Officer Hassan Wahla 39 Vice President, Business Development and Carrier Sales Dr. HP Jin is a cofounder of our company and has served as our president and a member of our board of directors since October 1999. Dr. Jin has also served as our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors from October 1999 to May 2001 and since December 2001. Prior to TeleNav, Dr. Jin served as a senior strategy consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. Prior to that time, Dr. Jin was a business strategy and management consultant at McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm. Dr. Jin was also previously a technical director at Loral Integrated Navigation Communication Satellite Systems, or LINCSS, a division of Loral Space & Communications, Inc., a GPS service and engineering company. Dr. Jin holds a B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Harbin Institute of Technology in China and a Ph.D. in Guidance, Navigation and Control, with a Ph.D. minor in Electrical Engineering, from Stanford University. Douglas Miller has served as our chief financial officer since May 2006. From July 2005 to May 2006, Mr. Miller served as vice president and chief financial officer of Longboard, Inc., a privately held provider of telecommunications software. From October 1998 to July 2005, Mr. Miller held various management positions at 14 Table of Contents Synplicity, Inc., a publicly traded electronic design automation company acquired by Synopsys, Inc., including senior vice president of finance and chief financial officer. Prior to that time, Mr. Miller also served as chief financial officer of 3DLabs, Inc., a publicly held graphics semiconductor company, and as a partner at Ernst & Young LLP, a professional services organization. Mr. Miller is a certified public accountant (inactive). He holds a B.S.C. in Accounting from Santa Clara University. Y.C. Chao is a cofounder of our company and has served as our vice president, research and development, since March 2006. From October 1999 to March 2006, Dr. Chao served as our senior director of technology. From June 1998 to October 1999, Dr. Chao was a GPS software engineer at Snaptrack, an assisted GPS technology company and a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated. Prior to that, Dr. Chao was a GPS receiver engineer at Trimble Navigation, a positioning products solutions company. Dr. Chao holds a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from National Taiwan University, an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Texas Aerospace Engineering, Center for Space Research and a Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University. Salman Dhanani is a cofounder of our company and was promoted to vice president, products and marketing, in August 2009, and became vice president, products in August 2010. Mr. Dhanani served as our executive director of marketing from March 2009 to July 2009 and as our senior director of marketing from November 1999 to February 2009. From January 1999 to November 1999, Mr. Dhanani served as a consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. From July 1996 to December 1998, Mr. Dhanani served as an application engineer at Schlumberger Ltd., a technology consulting services company. Mr. Dhanani holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington. Loren Hillberg has served as our general counsel since April 2009. From September 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Hillberg served as vice president and general counsel at Force10 Networks, a privately held communications and networks company. From April 2005 to May 2007, Mr. Hillberg held various management positions, including executive vice president and general counsel at Macrovision Corporation (now Rovi Corporation), a publicly traded digital entertainment company. From May 1998 to March 2005, Mr. Hillberg served as senior vice president and general counsel at Macromedia, Inc., a provider of web publishing products and solutions that was acquired by Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Hillberg holds a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University and a J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of Law. Dariusz Paczuksi has served as our vice president, marketing since July 2010. From December 2007 to July 2010, Mr. Paczuski held various positions, including senior director of Bing Carrier Strategy and senior director of Tellme Consumer Services, at Microsoft Corporation. From 2002 to 2007, Mr. Paczuski held various positions, including vice president, Search Products and vice president, Product Marketing, at AOL Inc. Prior to that time, Mr. Paczuski held positions at Netscape Communications Corporation and General Electric Company. Mr. Paczuski holds a B.S. in Marketing from California State University in Long Beach. Robert Rennard is a cofounder of our company and has served as our chief technical officer since February 2002. From December 1999 to February 2002, Dr. Rennard served as our vice president of engineering. From March 1998 to November 1999, Dr. Rennard served as director of product development at Cyberstar/Loral, a division of Loral Space & Communications, Inc. From April 1997 to February 1998, Dr. Rennard served as director of systems engineering at Cyberstar/Loral. From July 1996 to April 1997, Dr. Rennard served as vice president of engineering at LINCSS/Loral. Prior to that time, Dr. Rennard was a vice president of GPS Navigation Systems at Stanford Telecom, a telecommunications company acquired by ITT and Newbridge Networks Corporation, and an acquisition program manager for the U.S. Air Force. Dr. Rennard holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wyoming, an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Ohio State University and a Ph.D. in Aerospace Science from the Air Force Institute of Technology. 15 Table of Contents Hassan Wahla was promoted to vice president, business development and carrier sales, in August 2009 and served as our executive director of business development from May 2005 to August 2009. From April 2003 to May 2005, Mr. Wahla served as a senior product manager at Nextel Communications, a wireless communications company that merged with Sprint. From February 2002 to April 2003, Mr. Wahla served as vice president of business development of Wireless Multimedia Solutions, a privately held wireless software platform company. From September 1999 to February 2002, Mr. Wahla served as director of business development at MicroStrategy, Inc., a business intelligence software company. Prior to that time, Mr. Wahla served as a senior consultant at Maritime Power, a maritime equipment company. Mr. Wahla holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from Virginia Tech, an M.S. in Management from Stevens Institute of Technology and a Masters of International Affairs from Columbia University. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before you decide whether to purchase any of our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk related to our business We are substantially dependent on two wireless carrier customers for a large portion of our revenue and if these wireless carrier customers were to limit or terminate our relationships with them or to offer LBS directly or from other vendors, our revenue and net income would be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on two wireless carrier customers for a large portion of our revenue. In fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, Sprint represented 61%, 55% and 42% of our revenue, respectively. Effective September 1, 2010, we amended our agreement with Sprint to, among other things, extend the term of our agreement from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with Sprint, we are Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications until December 31, 2012 and Sprint is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to feature our navigation services more prominently than other navigation applications on handsets and to preload certain of our products on handsets. Sprint is entitled to expand the number of bundles in which our navigation services are offered. For bundled navigation services, Sprint will pay us a fixed annual fee regardless of the number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds). Sprint may terminate our agreement for any reason, beginning June 30, 2012, by providing notice at least 30 business days prior to termination. Our amended agreement with Sprint will result in declines in ARPU compared to the quarters prior to implementation of the amendment due to increasing numbers of Sprint bundle subscribers with access to our services and fixed revenue from Sprint for bundled basic navigation services. Although we are entitled to receive more revenue from enterprise LBS, mobile commerce and premium navigation services than we previously were, we may not be able to realize these benefits in the near term or at all. Our failure to renew or renegotiate this agreement on or after June 30, 2012 on favorable terms or at all, a termination of our agreement by Sprint or our failure to otherwise maintain our relationship with Sprint would substantially reduce our revenue and significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with our amended agreement with Sprint, we and Sprint have agreed to transition Sprint Navigation branded services to TeleNav branded navigation services. The branding transition may not increase end user recognition of our brand and may result in confusion that results in reduced or more limited adoption of our services by Sprints subscribers. In March 2008, Sprint began offering the Simply Everything plans which currently include our LBS. As a result, we have experienced a significant increase in end users and benefitted from increased marketing exposure since the Simply Everything plans introduction. If Sprint reduces its expenditures for marketing our LBS, changes its Simply Everything plans to eliminate our services, prices our LBS at a level that makes them less attractive or offers and promotes competing LBS, in lieu of, or to a greater degree than, our LBS, our revenue would be materially reduced and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, AT&T represented 29%, 34% and 37% of our total revenue, respectively. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. As amended in January 2011, our agreement with AT&T expires in March 2013 and during the term of our agreement, we are the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. If AT&T were to terminate its agreement with us or fail to renew or renegotiate the agreement on favorable terms when it expires, we would lose a substantial portion of our revenue and our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Furthermore, our failure to otherwise maintain our relationship with AT&T would substantially harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market, including competitors that offer their services for free, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain wireless carrier customers and end users. The market for development, distribution and sale of LBS is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Competitors may offer LBS that have at least equivalent functionality to ours for free. For example, Google offers free voice guided, turn by turn navigation as part of its Google Maps product for mobile devices based on the Android 1.6 and higher operating system platform and Nokia, provides a download for its latest version of Nokia Maps on its smartphones which also provides turn by turn navigation functions. Microsoft also provides a free turn by turn navigation solution with its Windows Mobile operating system via their Bing for Mobile application. Competition from these free offerings may reduce our revenue and harm our business. If our wireless carrier customers can offer these LBS to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful. Our primary competitors include providers of LBS such as Google, Microsoft, Nokia, TCS, through its acquisition of NIM, Telmap and TomTom Maps; PND providers such as Garmin and TomTom Maps; integrated navigation mobile phone providers such as Garmin and Nokia; providers of Internet and mobile based maps and directions such as AOL, Mapquest, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!; and wireless carriers and communication solutions providers developing their own LBS. Some of our competitors and our potential competitors advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: the provision of their services at no or low cost to consumers; significantly greater revenue and financial resources; stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and nonmobile products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier and handset manufacturer relationships; greater resources to make and integrate acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our wireless carrier customers may change the pricing and other terms by which they offer our LBS, which could result in increased end user turnover, lower revenue and adverse effects on our business. Certain of our wireless carrier customers sell unlimited data service plans, which include our LBS. As a result, end users do not have to pay a separate monthly fee to use our services. If our wireless carrier customers were to eliminate our services from their unlimited data service plans, such as the Sprint Simply Everything plans, we could lose end users as they would be required to pay a separate monthly fee to continue to use our 18 Table of Contents services. In addition, we could be required to change our fee structure to retain end users, which could negatively affect our gross margins. For example, effective September 1, 2010, we amended our agreement with Sprint to, among other things, provide bundled navigation services for a fixed annual fee from Sprint regardless of the number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds), rather than the per subscriber per month fee structure we and Sprint had previously employed. We anticipate that our future revenue from Sprint and our ARPU and gross margins will be negatively affected as a result of the shift to a fixed fee model for services we provide to bundled subscribers. Our wireless carrier customers may also seek to reduce the monthly fees per subscriber that they pay us if their subscribers do not use our services as often as the wireless carriers expect or for any other reason in order to reduce their costs. Our wireless carrier customers may also decide to raise prices, impose usage caps or discontinue unlimited data service plans, which could cause our end users who receive our services through those plans to move to a less expensive plan that does not include our services or terminate their relationship with the wireless carrier. If imposed, these pricing changes or usage restrictions could make our LBS less attractive and could result in current end users abandoning our LBS. If end user turnover increased, the number of our end users and our revenue would decrease and our business would be harmed. We are also required to give AT&T certain most favored customer pricing on specified products and in certain markets. In certain circumstances this may require us to reduce the price per end user under the AT&T contract, which may adversely impact our revenue. We are substantially dependent on our wireless carrier customers to market and distribute our LBS to end users and our business may be harmed if our wireless carrier customers elect not to broadly offer our services. We rely on our wireless carrier customers to introduce, market and promote our LBS to end users. Only one of our wireless carrier customers is contractually obligated to continue to do so. If wireless carrier customers do not introduce, market and promote mobile phones that are GPS enabled and on which our client software is preloaded and do not actively market our LBS, our LBS will not achieve broader acceptance and our revenue may not grow as fast as anticipated, or may decline. Wireless carriers, including those with which we have existing relationships, may decide not to offer our services and may enter into exclusive relationships with one or more of our competitors. While our LBS may still be available to customers of those wireless carriers as downloads from application stores or our website, sales of our LBS would likely be much more limited than if our LBS were preloaded as a white label service actively marketed by the carrier or were included as part of a bundle of services. Our inability to offer our LBS through a white label offering or as part of a bundle on popular mobile phones would harm our operating results and financial condition. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models, particularly free to premium options, in the LBS market may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution and sale of LBS are evolving rapidly. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology and new products may make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although historically wireless carriers controlled provisioning and access to the applications that could be used on mobile phones connected to their networks, in recent years consumers have been able to download and provision applications from individual provider websites and to select from a menu of applications through the Apple App Store, Android Marketplace, the Blackberry App World and other application aggregators. In these marketplaces there is a high premium on being noticed. In order to achieve high market rankings many vendors, including ourselves, provide free versions of products that then provide opportunities for end users to upgrade to premium versions for a charge. This distribution model may not be sustainable if the cost of providing free services is greater than the revenue opportunity associated with the premium services and any related revenue opportunity for free services, such as advertising. 19 Table of Contents In addition, other new entrants may seek to have their products preloaded on mobile devices by OEMs or offered by OEMs directly. Increased competition from providers of LBS which do not rely on a wireless carrier may result in fewer wireless carrier subscribers electing to purchase their wireless carriers branded LBS, which could harm our business and revenue. In addition, these LBS may be offered for free or on a one time fee basis, which could force us to reduce monthly subscription fees, migrate to a one time fee model or offer free versions of our products that allow for upgrades to more premium versions for a fee to remain competitive. We may also lose end users or face erosion in ARPU if these competitors deliver their products without charge to the consumer by generating revenue from advertising or as part of other applications or services. Finally, we may not be successful at generating revenue from premium navigation services if end users believe that free services are comparable or adequate. Our success depends on significantly increasing the number of end users that purchase our LBS from our wireless carrier customers. Our revenue is derived almost exclusively from subscription fees that we receive from our wireless carrier customers for end users who subscribe to our services on a standalone basis or in a bundle with other services. Depending on the wireless carrier contracts, we receive revenue as (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services, or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, or (4) based on usage or other basis. To date, a relatively small number of end users have subscribed for our services in connection with their wireless plans compared to the total number of mobile phone users. Our near term success depends heavily on achieving significantly increased subscriber adoption of our LBS either through standalone subscriptions to our services or as part of bundles from our existing wireless carrier customers. Our success also depends on achieving widespread deployment of our LBS by attracting and retaining additional wireless carrier customers. The use of our LBS will depend on the pricing and quality of those services, subscriber demand for those services, which may vary by market, as well as the level of subscriber turnover experienced by our wireless carrier customers. If subscriber turnover increases more than we anticipate, our financial results could be adversely affected. If our current and future wireless carrier customers do not successfully market our LBS, particularly GPS Navigator, to their customers or if we are not successful in maintaining and expanding our relationships with our wireless carrier customers, we will not be able to maintain or increase the number of end users that use our LBS and our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If our wireless carrier customers lose net subscribers, such as the losses Sprint previously experienced, or if their subscribers do not continue to purchase service plans that include our LBS and we are unable to develop relationships with other significant wireless carriers, we may lose end users and our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Wireless carriers relationships with subscribers have been threatened by several factors, including strong competition, lack of subscriber loyalty and the development of direct relationships between mobile phone manufacturers and mobile phone operating system providers and consumers. A loss of net subscribers by one or more of our wireless carrier customers could harm our business as we rely on our wireless carrier customers to market our products. For example, one of our key wireless carrier customers, Sprint, has experienced losses in net subscribers in the past. Although Sprint has recently experienced gains in net subscribers, if these gains in subscribers are not sustained or if Sprint subscribers do not continue to purchase service plans that include our LBS, we may also lose end users and experience a decline in revenue to the extent we are unable to develop similar relationships with other significant wireless carriers which include our services in attractive bundled or other LBS offerings that generate comparable revenue. A significant decrease in the number of our end users will adversely affect our revenue and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to increase or maintain our end user base and revenue will be impaired if mobile phone manufacturers do not allow us to customize our services for their new devices. We typically deliver our services through client software that has been customized to work with a given mobile phones operating system, features and form factors. Wireless carrier customers often insist that mobile phone manufacturers permit us to customize our client software for their devices in order to provide the end user with a positive experience. Wireless carriers or mobile phone manufacturers may enter into agreements with other providers of LBS for new or popular mobile phones. For this reason or others, some mobile phone manufacturers may refuse to permit us to access preproduction models of their mobile phones or the mobile phone manufacturers may offer a competing service. If mobile phone manufacturers do not permit us to customize our client software and preload it on their devices, we may have difficulty attracting end users because of poor user experiences or an inconvenient provisioning process. If we are unable to provide seamless provisioning or end users cancel their subscriptions to our services because they have poor experiences, our revenue may be harmed. Our operating income and net income could decline as a percentage of revenue as we make further expenditures to enhance and expand our operations in order to support additional growth in our business. As a percentage of revenue, our operating income was 38%, 40% and 33% and our net income was 27%, 24% and 20% in fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Since June 30, 2008, we have made significant investments in new operating and information systems and additional data centers, hired substantial numbers of new research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative personnel and expanded our operations outside the United States. Efforts to develop new services and products and attract new wireless carrier customers require investments in anticipation of longer term revenue. We intend to make additional investments in systems and personnel and continue to expand our operations to support anticipated growth in our business. As a result of these factors, we believe our operating income and net income may decline as a percentage of revenue at least through fiscal 2012. Furthermore, our investments and expenditures may not result in the growth that we anticipate. We also will not be able to reduce our expenditures on a timely basis, if at all, if we do not generate anticipated revenue. We are substantially dependent on revenue from our GPS Navigator service, our flagship LBS, and, if we fail to generate significant revenue from other services, our operating results may be harmed if revenue from GPS Navigator declines. Although revenue in absolute dollars from sources other than GPS Navigator rose in all periods presented, revenue from our GPS Navigator service represented 92%, 94% and 88% of our revenue in fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. If we were unable to be the exclusive provider of white label navigation services to our major wireless carrier customers or the number of end users for GPS Navigator were to decline, our revenue would be substantially harmed. We have experienced a reduction of ARPU from GPS Navigator over time as our wireless carrier customers implement white label and more bundled offerings, for which we typically receive a lower monthly subscription fee or a fixed annual fee regardless of the number of end users (subject to specified thresholds) to which we provide our services. We may be unable to increase our revenue from our enterprise LBS, automotive navigation, mobile advertising and commerce and premium LBS. If we were unable to offset declining ARPU from GPS Navigator by increasing the amount of revenue that our other services and products represent, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We rely on our wireless carrier customers for timely and accurate subscriber information. A failure or disruption in the provisioning of this data to us would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We rely on our wireless carrier customers to bill subscribers and collect monthly fees for our LBS, either directly or through third party service providers. If our wireless carrier customers or their third party service providers provide us with inaccurate data or experience errors or outages in their own billing and provisioning 21 Table of Contents systems when performing these services, our revenue may be less than anticipated or may be subject to adjustment with the wireless carrier. In the past, we have experienced errors in wireless carrier reporting. If we are unable to identify and resolve discrepancies in a timely manner, our revenue may vary more than anticipated from period to period and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on a proprietary provisioning and reporting system to track end user activation, deactivation and usage data and any material failures in this system could harm our revenue, affect our costs and impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Our provisioning and reporting system that authenticates end users and tracks the number of end users and their use of our services is a proprietary and customized system that we developed internally. Although we believe that the flexibility of this service to integrate tightly with wireless carriers reporting and provisioning systems gives us a competitive advantage, we might lose revenue and the ability to manage our business effectively if the system were to experience material failures or be unable to scale as our business grows. In addition, we may not be able to report our financial results on a timely basis if our wireless carrier customers question the accuracy of our records or we experience significant discrepancies between the data generated by our provisioning and reporting systems and data generated by the wireless carriers systems, or if our systems fail or we are unable to report timely and accurate information to our third party data providers. The inability to timely report our financial results would impair the quality of our financial reporting and could result in the delisting of our common stock. Our profitability may decline as we expand into other service and product areas and we may be unable to recoup our investments. We receive a substantial majority of our revenue from monthly subscription fees paid by wireless carrier customers who bill their subscribers for our services on a standalone or bundled basis. As we expand our LBS offerings to enable end users to purchase our services from application stores outside of wireless carriers sales platforms, we may have to adapt our revenue model to a one time fee for services. In addition, as we expand into the automotive navigation market, mobile advertising and commerce and premium LBS or other markets for LBS, we may be required to adopt pricing models other than monthly subscription fees and may incur cost of revenue substantially different than that which we have experienced historically due in part to third party content costs. These different pricing models and increased costs of revenue may result in declines in our gross margins. We have limited experience in selling our services and products outside of the wireless carrier application platform. As we expand into new service and product areas, such as automotive navigation systems, we may not be able to compete effectively with existing market participants and may not be able to realize a positive return on the investment we have made in these products or services. If our introduction of a new product or service is not successful or we are not able to achieve the revenue or margins we expect, our operating results may be harmed and we may not recover our product development and marketing expenditures. Our automotive navigation products are an important part of our effort to expand outside of mobile device navigation to other platforms and we may not be successful in our efforts to attract and retain automobile manufacturers and OEMs, implement high quality products or achieve end customer acceptance of our services and fee model. We began to offer our first automotive off-board navigation service as an option to certain 2010 model year Ford vehicles in certain 2011 model year Ford vehicles. These navigation solutions represent our first significant activities in the automotive market and we may not be successful at achieving manufacturer and end customer acceptance of these navigation solutions. As we expand into the automotive navigation market, we will be competing with established automotive OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as Bosch, Garmin, TomTom Maps and NNG, or 22 Table of Contents Nav N Go, as well as other competitors such as Google, Microsoft and TCS. Certain of the on-board solutions that we offer may not satisfy automotive manufacturers or end customers expectations for those solutions. To the extent that we charge service fees beyond an initial fee at the time the vehicle is purchased, we may not be successful in gaining traction with customers to provide services and charge ongoing fees outside of the traditional on-board navigation service model. As we have limited experience in the on-board navigation market, we also may not price our solutions in such a way that is profitable for us and enables us to recoup the development expenses we incurred to provide such solutions in the time we expect or at all. Development schedules for automotive navigation products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely delivery of these products to our customers. Furthermore, we are actively pursuing and have yet to be successful with connected automotive navigation solutions, but believe this will be an important market. If we fail to achieve profitability in any of our automotive navigation solutions (whether on-board, connected or other), we may be unable to achieve the benefits of revenue diversification. We will also be dependent on our automobile manufacturer or OEM customer to report on vehicles sold and to remit fees due at the time of sale. If our automobile manufacturer or OEM customers do not report promptly or correctly, our revenue, cost of revenue and net income may be affected. The success of our automotive navigation products may be affected by overall automotive industry dynamics and customer issues. Our ability to succeed long term in the automotive industry depends on our ability to enter into contracts for future year vehicles with our current automobile manufacturers in addition to broadening out to other automobile manufacturers and OEMs. For automobile manufacturers with whom we have established relationships such as Ford, our success depends on continued production of vehicles with and adoption by automobile buyers of our products offered by such automobile manufacturers. As we move forward, Ford may not include our solutions in future year vehicles or territories, which would negatively affect our revenue from these products. We may also not be successful in attracting and retaining other automobile manufacturers and OEMs due to intense competitive pressures affecting vehicle sales on a global basis, the economic restructuring among certain domestic automobile manufacturers and OEMs and severe financial-related shocks upon the automotive markets and supply chain. If our end users increase their usage of our services, our net operating income may decline because the fees we receive from our wireless carrier customers generally do not depend on usage. With limited exceptions, our wireless carrier customers pay us fees that do not vary depending on whether or how often an end user uses our services. Historically, end users using certain mobile phones or under certain service plans tended to use our services more than other end users. We budget and operate our services by making certain assumptions about usage patterns. If our end users were to further increase their usage of our services substantially or were to be permitted to use basic versions of our service for a fee, we would incur additional expenses to expand our server capacity, operate additional data centers and pay additional third party content fees. These additional costs would harm our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to enhance our LBS to keep pace with technological and market developments, or develop new LBS in a timely manner or at competitive prices. The market for LBS is emerging and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and achieve product acceptance, our future success depends upon our ability to enhance our current LBS platform and to continue to develop and introduce new LBS 23 Table of Contents offerings and enhanced performance features and functionality on a timely basis at competitive prices. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce or deliver compelling LBS in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technologies or consumer expectations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or could result in our LBS becoming obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering team and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of our LBS platform with evolving industry standards and protocols and competitive network operating environments. Development and delivery schedules for LBS are difficult to predict. We have in the past and may in the future fail to deliver new versions of our services in a timely fashion. If new releases of our LBS are delayed or our services are not preloaded on mobile phones upon their initial commercial release, our wireless carrier customers may curtail their efforts to market and promote our LBS and end users may switch to competing services, any of which would result in a delay or loss of revenue and could harm our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies and related LBS that we develop will be brought to market by our wireless carrier customers as quickly as anticipated or that they will achieve broad acceptance among wireless carriers or consumers. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services and if we were unable to obtain content at reasonable prices, or at all, our gross margins and our ability to provide our services would be harmed. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services, including map data, POI, traffic information, gas prices and weather information. If our suppliers of this data or content were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of LBS or were to discontinue providing such information and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide our services would be harmed. Our gross margins may also be affected if the cost of third party data and content increases substantially. We obtain map data from TomTom Maps and NAVTEQ, which are companies owned by our current and potential competitors TomTom Maps and Nokia, respectively. Accordingly, these third party data and content providers may act in a manner that is not in our best interest. For example, they may cease to offer their map data to us. We may not be able to upgrade our LBS platform to support certain advanced features and functionality without obtaining technology licenses from third parties. Obtaining these licenses may be costly and may delay the introduction of such features and functionality, and these licenses may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. The inability to offer advanced features or functionality, or a delay in our ability to upgrade our LBS platform, may adversely affect consumer demand for our LBS and, consequently, harm our business. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We have substantially expanded our overall business, end user base, headcount and operations in recent periods. We increased our total number of full time employees from 438 at June 30, 2008 to 1,011 at June 30, 2011. During this same period, we made substantial investments in our information systems and significantly expanded our operations outside the United States, including an expansion of our research and development activities in China. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, our operating results will suffer. In addition, due to the large number of employees located outside of the United States, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency rates which could result in higher labor and related operating costs. 24 Table of Contents Network failures, disruptions or capacity constraints in our third party data center facilities or in our servers could affect the performance of our LBS and harm our reputation and our revenue. Our LBS are provided through a combination of our servers, which we house at third party data centers, the public Internet and the private and wireless networks of our wireless carrier customers. Our operations rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the third party data centers we use. Our hosted data centers are currently located in third party facilities located in the San Francisco Bay Area. We have recently added third party data center facilities in the Sacramento, California area to provide for disaster recovery and, which we expect, in the long term, to accommodate the anticipated growth of our LBS. Depending on the growth rate in the number of our end users and their usage of our services, if we do not timely complete and open additional data centers, we may experience capacity issues, which could lead to service failures and disruptions. In addition, if we are unable to secure data center space with appropriate power, cooling and bandwidth capacity, we may be unable to efficiently and effectively scale our business to manage the addition of new wireless carrier customers, increases in the number of our end users or increases in data traffic. Our data centers are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications or computer systems failure, human error, terrorist acts or other events. We have not yet completed a comprehensive business continuity plan and there can be no assurance that the measures implemented by us to date, or measures implemented by us in the future, to manage risks related to network failures or disruptions in our data centers will be adequate, or that the redundancies built into our servers will work as planned in the event of network failures or other disruptions. In particular, if we experienced damage or interruptions to our data centers in the San Francisco Bay Area, or were unable to commence recovery operations in our new data center in Sacramento, California, our ability to provide efficient and uninterrupted operation of our services would be significantly impaired. We could also experience failures of our data centers or interruptions of our services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: damage to or failure of our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; errors in the processing of data by our servers; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; or errors by our employees or third party service providers. Poor performance in or disruptions of our services could harm our reputation, delay market acceptance of our services and subject us to liabilities. Our wireless carrier agreements require us to meet at least 99.9% operational uptime requirements, excluding scheduled maintenance periods, or be subjected to penalties. In addition, if our end user base continues to grow, additional strain will be placed on our technology systems and networks, which may increase the risk of a network disruption. Any outage in a network or system, or other unanticipated problem that leads to an interruption or disruption of our LBS, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If our LBS platform does not scale as anticipated, or we are unable to grow data center capacity as needed, our business will be harmed. Despite frequent testing of the scalability of our LBS platform in a test environment, the ability of our LBS platform to scale to support a substantial increase in the use of our services or number of users in an actual commercial environment is unproven. If our LBS platform does not efficiently and effectively scale to support and manage a substantial increase in the use of our services or number of users while maintaining a high level of performance, our business will be seriously harmed. 25 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. Therefore, you should not rely on the results achieved in any one quarter as an indication of future performance. Period to period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: changes in the pricing of our services or products or those of our competitors and changes in the pricing and content of bundled LBS offerings of our wireless carrier customers, such as the revenue model changes resulting from our recent contract amendment with Sprint; impact of results of the offering of a premium upgrade on a basic version of our service that is offered for free included in a wireless carrier customers bundled offerings; changes made to an existing contractual obligations with a customer that may affect the nature and timing of revenue recognition; loss of subscribers by our wireless carrier customers or a reduction in the number of subscribers to plans that include our services; the timing and quality of information we receive from our wireless carrier customers and automobile manufacturers and OEMs; our inability to attract new end users; the timing and success of new service introductions by us or our competitors; the timing and success of new mobile phone introductions by our wireless carrier customers; the loss of our relationship with any particular wireless carrier customer; the timing and success of wireless carrier customers marketing expenditures; the seasonality of new vehicle model introductions and consumer buying patterns; the extent of any interruption in our services; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure; the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, products or businesses; potential foreign currency exchange gains and losses associated with expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for smartphones and LBS in the United States and other countries where we sell our services and products; changes in interest rates and our mix of investments, which would impact our return on our investments in cash and marketable securities; changes in our effective tax rates; and the impact of new accounting pronouncements. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly and we could face costly securities class action lawsuits or other unanticipated issues. 26 Table of Contents If a substantial number of end users change mobile phones or if our wireless carrier customers switch to subscription plans that require active monthly renewal by end users, our revenue could suffer. Subscription fees represent the vast majority of our revenue. As mobile phone development continues and new mobile phones are offered at subsidized rates to subscribers in connection with plan renewals, an increasing percentage of end users who already subscribe to our services will likely upgrade from their existing mobile phones. With some wireless carriers, subscribers are unable to automatically transfer their existing subscriptions from one mobile phone to another, or may choose to discontinue our services if their new device has an alternative application pre-installed. In addition, wireless carriers may switch to subscription billing systems that require subscribers to actively renew, or opt-in, each month from current systems that passively renew unless subscribers take some action to opt-out of their subscriptions. In either case, unless we or our wireless carrier customers are able to resell subscriptions to these subscribers or replace these subscribers with other subscribers, our revenue would suffer and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to attract new wireless carrier customers, our revenue growth may be adversely affected and our net income could decline. If we do not add new wireless carrier customers and increase the number of end users who receive our services through those new wireless carrier customers, we may not be able to increase our revenue in the longer term. Our sales and marketing efforts may not be successful in establishing relationships with new wireless carrier customers. We will not be successful in expanding into new geographic markets without developing relationships with successful wireless carriers in those markets. We expect to incur significant additional expenses in hiring additional personnel and expanding our international operations in order to attract new wireless carrier customers in different geographic markets to achieve revenue growth. If we fail to attract new successful wireless carrier customers and their subscribers or our new service introductions are not successful, we may be unable to increase our revenue and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult for us to predict when we will generate revenue from wireless carrier and automobile manufacturer and OEM customers. We have a lengthy and complex sales process. The integration and testing of our LBS platform with a prospective wireless carrier requires substantial time and expense before launching our LBS with that wireless carrier. In new geographic markets, our sales cycles are typically longer and may involve more challenges such as language or government regulation/compliance requirements. Even after a wireless carrier decides to launch our LBS, the integration of our LBS platform with a wireless carriers network and billing systems generally requires several months to complete. Moreover, launch of our LBS by a wireless carrier typically may be timed to coincide with a new mobile phone launch, over which we have no control. In addition, being selected to participate and designed into new vehicle models is a lengthy and time consuming process and our LBS platform may not be included for factors beyond our control if we are participating in the vehicle with an OEM. Because of these lengthy cycles, we may experience delays from the time we begin the sales process and incur increased costs and expenses to obtain a partner as a customer and integrate our LBS platform until the time we generate revenue from such wireless carrier, OEM or automobile manufacturers. These delays may make it difficult to predict when we will generate revenue from new customers. The failure of mobile phone providers selected by our wireless carrier customers to keep pace with technological and market developments in mobile phone design and the rapid transition in the industry from feature phones to smartphones may negatively affect the demand for our LBS. Wireless carriers select various mobile phones to run on their wireless networks. Our future success will depend on these mobile phone providers ability to design and manufacture mobile phones that meet the demands of wireless carriers and their subscribers. In order to continue their relationships with the wireless carriers, these 27 Table of Contents mobile phone providers will have to continue to invest in developing mobile phones that are compatible with the advanced network technology that wireless carriers are deploying to increase network capacity and speed. If our wireless carrier customers fail to select mobile phone providers whose products have superior GPS capabilities or fail to adopt other advanced technologies, our ability to sell our LBS may suffer. If we do not extend our client software to these devices in a timely and efficient manner before the initial commercial launch of the mobile phone, our adoption rates will suffer. In addition, if our wireless carrier customers select mobile phones that are incompatible with our LBS client software, we will incur additional time and expenses to extend our services to those devices, which may cause us to incur unanticipated operating expenses and miss product launch windows. Because of short product life cycles in the wireless communications industry, if we fail to integrate our software on a mobile phone prior to its commercial launch or if it is preloaded with another providers LBS, we may lose a substantial opportunity to gain end users who purchase that device and our revenue may suffer. The rapid transition occurring in the market for mobile phones from feature phones to smartphones creates opportunities for competitors to enter the market for our LBS services with wireless carriers that traditionally provided a single option for their platform. This shift in consumer hardware choice may result in more competitors targeting the smartphone opportunities at lower prices without having to cooperate with the wireless carrier. We traditionally benefited in our relationship with wireless carriers through their distribution of our application for their devices as the pre-loaded option for end users. As end users become accustomed to searching out their own applications generally they may also seek out more alternatives for their LBS application. Successful sales of our LBS depend on our wireless carrier customers keeping pace with changing consumer preferences for mobile phones and our ability to appeal to smartphone users with more application options. If our wireless carrier customers do not select mobile phones with the design attributes attractive to consumers, such as thin form factors, high resolution screens and desired functionality, customers may select wireless carriers with whom we do not have a relationship and subscriptions for our LBS may decline and, consequently, our business may be harmed. A large percentage of our research and development operations are conducted in China and our ability to introduce new services and support our existing services cost effectively depends on our ability to manage those remote development sites successfully. Our success depends on our ability to enhance our current services and develop new services and products rapidly and cost effectively. We opened two research and development centers in China, in addition to our existing facility, for the purpose of conducting more fundamental product development in those locations. We currently have a majority of our research and development personnel in China. As we do not have substantial experience managing core product development operations that are remote from our U.S. headquarters, we may not be able to manage these remote centers successfully. We could incur unexpected costs or delays in product development that could impair our ability to meet market windows or cause us to forego certain new product opportunities. Because our long term success depends on our ability to increase the number of end users located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. As of June 30, 2011, we had international operations in China, the United Kingdom and Brazil. Our experience with wireless carriers and automobile manufacturers and OEMs outside the United States is limited. Although we have entered into agreements with 14 wireless carriers to provide our LBS in 29 countries and in absolute dollars our revenue from international operations increased in each of the periods presented, our revenue from the United States comprised 96%, 97% and 96% of our total revenue for fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our limited experience in operating our business outside the United States increases the risk that our current and future international expansion efforts may not be successful. In particular, our business model 28 Table of Contents may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently do not anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements difficulties in managing the staffing of remote operations; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; dependence on foreign wireless carriers with different pricing models; roaming charges to end users; availability of reliable 2G, 3G and 4G mobile networks in those countries; requirements that we comply with local telecommunication regulations in those countries; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; political, social and economic instability in some jurisdictions; terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team and in particular, our founders, Y.C. Chao, HP Jin and Robert Rennard. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to retain our senior management. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our employees work for us on an at will basis. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the software industry and for persons with experience with GPS and LBS. The high degree of competition for personnel we experience has resulted in and may also continue to result in the incurrence of significantly higher compensation costs to attract, hire and retain employees. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business and future growth prospects. If we are unable to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. We have not made any acquisitions to date. In the future, we may make acquisitions to improve our LBS offerings or expand to new markets. Our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, 29 Table of Contents negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Any mergers and acquisitions we may pursue would involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operation of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and customers of the companies we acquire; insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate; and our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with financial covenants and secure that debt obligation with our assets. We may be required to incur unanticipated capital expenditures. Circumstances may arise that require us to make unanticipated capital expenditures, including: the implementation of our equipment at new data centers and expansion of our operations at data centers; the replacement of outdated or failing equipment; and the acquisition of key technologies to support or expand our LBS. We rely on network infrastructures provided by our wireless carrier customers and mobile phones for the delivery of our LBS to end users. We generally provide our services from our own servers, which require close integration with the wireless carriers networks. We may be unable to provide high quality services if the wireless carriers networks perform poorly or experience delayed response times. Our future success will depend on the availability and quality of our wireless carrier customers networks in the United States and abroad to run our LBS. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable 2G, 3G and 4G networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. We do not establish or maintain these wireless networks and have no control over interruptions or failures in the deployment and maintenance by wireless carrier customers of their network infrastructure. In addition, these wireless network infrastructures may be unable to support the demands placed on them if the number of subscribers increases, or if existing or future subscribers increase their use of limited bandwidth. Market acceptance of our LBS will depend in part on the quality of these wireless networks and the ability of our wireless carrier customers to effectively manage their subscribers expectations. 30 Table of Contents Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could affect our ability to provide our LBS successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to network infrastructure may interfere with the integration of our servers with their network and delivery of our LBS and may cause end users to lose functionality for services they have already purchased. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot control the quality standards of our wireless carrier customers, their mobile phone providers and other technology customers. We cannot guarantee that the mobile phones are free from errors or defects. If errors or defects occur in mobile phones or services offered by our wireless carrier customers, it could result in consumers terminating our services, damage to our reputation, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims, lost revenue and diverted development resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mergers, consolidations or other strategic transactions in the wireless communications industry could weaken our competitive position, reduce the number of our wireless carrier customers and adversely affect our business. The wireless communications industry continues to experience consolidation and an increased formation of alliances among wireless carriers and between wireless carriers and other entities. Should one of our wireless carrier customers consolidate or enter into an alliance with another carrier, this could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our wireless carrier customer Alltel was acquired by Verizon in early 2009. Although we had an agreement with Alltel to be the exclusive white label provider of navigation services, Verizon elected to discontinue selling mobile phones preloaded with our LBS. We have experienced a decline in our revenue from the combined entity as a result of this decision, and expect this decline to continue. Such a consolidation or alliance may cause us to lose a wireless carrier customer or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which would have a negative effect on our business. We may not be able to expand our base of wireless carrier customers to offset revenue declines if we lose a wireless carrier customer or if the number of end users for our services declines. In addition, if two or more of our competitors or wireless carrier customers were to merge or partner, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We have agreements with both AT&T and T-Mobile, and if the proposed acquisition by AT&T of T-Mobile is completed, our arrangements with AT&T and/or T-Mobile may be adversely affected. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with their wireless carrier customers, sales channel partners or other parties with whom we have strategic relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our LBS. These events could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results. Reduced expenditures for mobile phones or wireless services due to adverse or uncertain economic conditions may negatively affect our business and results of operations. Recent adverse economic conditions and future uncertainties may directly affect the marketing and distribution of mobile phones and our LBS by our wireless carrier customers. As current and future conditions in the domestic and global economies remain uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of economic growth, which may cause some wireless carriers to emphasize marketing basic voice services rather than data services, such as LBS. In addition, subscribers may try to reduce their monthly expenses by reducing spending on discretionary wireless services, such as ours. Accordingly, the future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have an impact on our overall performance. Economic conditions are beyond our control. If these economic conditions worsen or fail to improve, we may experience reduced demand for and pricing pressure on our LBS, which could harm our operating results. 31 Table of Contents Changes in business direction and market conditions could lead to charges related to structural reorganization and discontinuation of certain products or services, which may adversely affect our financial results. In response to changing market conditions and the desire to focus on new and more potentially attractive opportunities, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, eliminating, or otherwise exiting certain business activities. Any decision to reduce investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction and excessive facility space costs. Risks related to our intellectual property and regulation We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us or our wireless carrier customers may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Our commercial success depends in part upon us and our customers not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation and it is not uncommon for our wireless carrier customers and competitors to be involved in infringement lawsuits by or against third parties. Many industry participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property aggressively assert their rights, and our wireless carrier customers, which we agree in certain circumstances to indemnify for intellectual property infringement claims related to our services, are often targets of such assertions. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing or future third party intellectual property rights would require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We have received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties asserting infringement and other related claims. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we were named as a defendant in certain cases alleging that our services infringe other parties patents, as well as other matters. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a description of these matters. These cases and future litigation may make it necessary to defend ourselves and our wireless carrier customers by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us or our wireless carrier customers. These companies typically have little or no product revenue and therefore our patents may provide little or no deterrence against such companies filing patent infringement lawsuits against us. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: adversely affect our relationships with our current or future wireless carrier customers; cause delays or stoppages in the shipment of TeleNav enabled mobile phones, or cause us to modify or suspend the provision of our LBS; cause us to incur significant expenses in defending claims brought against our wireless carrier customers or us; divert managements attention and resources; subject us to significant damages or settlements; require us to enter into settlements, royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms; or require us to cease certain activities. In addition to liability for monetary damages against us or, in certain circumstances, our wireless carrier customers, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide certain of our LBS 32 Table of Contents unless we obtain licenses from the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and we could, for example, be required to cease offering our LBS or be required to materially alter our LBS, which could involve substantial costs and time to develop. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defective software and other losses. Our agreements with our wireless carrier and automobile manufacturer and OEM customers include indemnification provisions. We agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our LBS or navigation products, including as a result of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defects and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally substantial and may be unlimited. In addition, some of these agreements permit our indemnitees to terminate their agreements with us if they determine that the use of our LBS or navigation products infringes third party intellectual property. We have received, and expect to receive in the future, demands for indemnification under these agreements. These demands can be very expensive to settle or defend, and we have in the past incurred substantial legal fees in connection with certain of these indemnity demands. For example, we have been notified by several wireless carriers that they have been named as defendants in certain patent infringement cases for which they may seek indemnification from us. See the section entitled Legal Proceedings. These indemnity demands relate to pending litigation and remain outstanding and unresolved as of the date of this Form 10-K. Large future indemnity payments and associated legal fees and expenses, including potential indemnity payments and legal fees and expenses relating to the current or future notifications, could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may in the future agree to defend and indemnify our wireless carrier or automobile manufacturer and OEM customers in connection with the pending notifications or future demands, irrespective of whether we believe that we have an obligation to indemnify them or whether we believe that our services and products infringe the asserted intellectual property rights. Alternatively, we may reject certain of our wireless carrier customers or automotive suppliers and manufacturers indemnity demands, which may lead to disputes with our wireless carrier or automobile manufacturer and OEM customers and may negatively impact our relationships with them or result in litigation against us. Our wireless carrier or automobile manufacturer and OEM customers may also claim that any rejection of their indemnity demands constitutes a material breach of our agreements with them, allowing them to terminate such agreements. Our agreements with Sprint and AT&T may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or services infringed upon a third partys rights. If, as a result of indemnity demands, we make substantial payments, our relationships with our wireless carrier customers are negatively impacted or if any of our wireless carrier agreements is terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. See the section entitled Legal Proceedings. The occurrence or perception of a security breach or disclosure of confidential information could harm our business. Our LBS include the transmission and storage of personal, private and confidential information primarily related to the location of our end users. If there is a security breach or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of any of these types of information, we could be exposed to investigations, litigation, fines and penalties. Remediation of and liability for loss or misappropriation of end user or employee personal information could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Even if we were not held liable for such 33 Table of Contents event, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of personal, private or confidential information could harm our reputation and our relationships with current and potential end users. Even the perception of a security risk could inhibit market acceptance of our LBS. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect against damages caused by any actual or perceived disruptions of our LBS or security breaches. We may also be required to provide information about the location of an end users mobile phone (or vehicle, with respect to certain of our enterprise LBS) to government authorities, which could result in public perception that we are providing the government with intelligence information and deter some end users from using our services. Any of these developments could harm our business. Changes in government regulation of the wireless communications industry and the automobile industry may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the wireless communications industry or further regulate the automobile industry, including laws and regulations regarding lawful interception of personal data, use of mobile phones or navigation services within autos or the control of such use, privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic storage of personal information may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours that store personal information. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the wireless communications or automobile industries may lessen the growth of wireless communications or automobile industry services and make operation more costly, and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our LBS. We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our LBS or products contain defects, there are errors in the maps supplied by third party map providers or if our end users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and under certain circumstances could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain limited insurance against accident related risks involving our products. However, we cannot assure you that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in litigation by consumers individually or on behalf of a class if their handsets or automobiles suffer problems from software downloads from our wireless carrier customers or automobile manufacturer and OEM customers. If we are unable to obtain indemnification from our customer for any damages or legal fees we may incur in connection with such complaints, our financial position may be adversely impacted. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover an award, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Government regulation designed to protect end user privacy may make it difficult for us to provide our services or adopt advertising based revenue models. We transmit and store a large volume of personal information in the course of providing our LBS. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information that is collected, stored and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. 34 Table of Contents Legislation may also be adopted in various jurisdictions that prohibits use of personal information and search histories to target end users with tailored advertising, or provide advertising at all. Although our advertising revenue to date is not significant, we anticipate we will continue to grow advertising revenue in the future to improve ARPU in certain markets. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. For example, the USA PATRIOT Act provides certain rights to U.S. law enforcement authorities to obtain personal information in the control of U.S. persons and entities without notifying the affected individuals. If we are required to allocate significant resources to modify the delivery of our services to enable enhanced legal interception of the personal information that we transmit and store, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, because various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage and transmission of personal information, we may face unknown requirements that pose compliance challenges in new international markets that we seek to enter. Such variation could subject us to costs, delayed service launches, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of personal information. These and other privacy concerns could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed. We rely primarily on a combination of patent laws, trademark laws, copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. However, our issued patents and any future patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not issue from any of our current or any future applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our LBS. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology, including the proprietary software components of our LBS and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential 35 Table of Contents information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We use open source software in our LBS platform and client applications that may subject our LBS platform and client applications to general release or require us to re-engineer our LBS platform and client applications, which may cause harm to our business. We use open source software in our LBS platform and client applications and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release our proprietary source code. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our LBS platform and client applications, discontinue the sale of our service in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks related to being a publicly traded company and holding our common stock As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we test our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure