Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us and our refer to TeleNav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011 as fiscal 2011. Overview We are a leading provider of location based services(LBS), including voice guided navigation on mobile phones, automotive LBS and enterprise LBS. Our LBS solutions provide consumers and enterprises with convenient and easy to use location specific, real time and personalized features and functions. By using an integral tool of their daily lives, their mobile phones, our end users can access our LBS almost anytime and anywhere to efficiently navigate to their destinations and easily obtain relevant local information. Through our hosted service delivery model, we provide our solutions through the networks of leading wireless carriers in the United States, including Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint, and AT&T Mobility LLC, or AT&T, as well as through certain carriers in other countries. Our flexible and proprietary LBS platform enables us to efficiently provide our LBS to millions of end users, across more than 600 types of mobile phones, all major mobile phone operating systems and a broad range of wireless network protocols. In the three months ended March 31, 2011, we had a monthly average of 22.5 million paying end users. We primarily derive our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our LBS to their subscribers either as a stand alone service or in a bundle with other applications. End users are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier. Our wireless carrier partners pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) commencing in September 2010, a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user. Our wireless carrier partners may offer our services on a stand alone basis or bundled with other voice and data services. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as Apples iTunes or Googles Android Market. In addition, we derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties earned from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. In the future, our revenue models are likely to vary as we expand our product offerings, including fee arrangements for mobile advertising and commerce supported programs, or basic versions of our services that may be offered for free and allow for upgrades to more premium versions for a charge. We and our wireless carrier partners may offer subscribers a 30-day free trial for our service. We believe that the wireless carrier billing makes our services more appealing to consumers and enterprises as they are not required to pay a separate monthly charge to a different vendor. In September 2010, we and our largest customer, Sprint, entered into an amendment to our agreement that results in us receiving a fixed annual fee from Sprint for their bundled service subscribers use of our navigation services which is not dependent upon the number of subscribers participating in those bundles until such time as a specified threshold is reached. This amendment affected our results of operations when it became effective in September 2010; however, the full effect of this amendment is evident in the three months ended December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011 as the amendment was in effect for the entire quarter. Over time, we anticipate that our amended agreement with Sprint will result in further declines in average revenue per user, or ARPU, due to anticipated increases in the number of Sprint bundle subscribers with access to our services and the significant reduction in revenue from Sprint for bundled basic navigation services compared to the quarters prior to implementation of the amendment. Although we are entitled to receive a greater share of revenue from enterprise LBS, mobile commerce and premium navigation services than we were previously, we may not be able to realize these benefits in the short term or at all. We cannot predict the ultimate financial impact of our amended agreement with Sprint. As a result of this amendment to our agreement with Sprint providing for a fixed annual fee, we believe that future ARPU and average monthly paying end users may not be comparable to earlier periods or be a meaningful indicator of our financial performance. 16 Table of Contents In September 2010, we also amended our agreement with Tele Atlas North America, Inc., now known as TomTom Maps, to change the fee structure for map and points of interest (POI), data we provide as part of our navigation services in Sprints bundled offerings. The material impact of the amendment is to align the manner in which we pay fees to TomTom Maps with the manner in which we receive revenue from Sprint. Pursuant to the amended agreement, we will pay TomTom Maps a percentage of fees we collect from Sprint for basic navigation services and our gross advertising and mobile commerce revenue, as well as a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium navigation services. We also agreed to certain guaranteed minimum payments to TomTom Maps for such services. These amendments affected our results of operations during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011. Although we have taken action to increase the predictability of certain of our third party map and POI data costs for services that we provide on an annual fixed fee basis that are not dependent on the number of subscribers, we may not have adequately aligned our fee structure for map and POI data with revenue from Sprints bundled offerings, and may not be successful in reducing the impact of the recent Sprint amendment on our gross margin. In January 2011, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with AT&T, one of our wireless carrier partners whose payments to us represent a substantial portion of our revenue. This amendment extended our existing agreement with AT&T through March 2013 and provided that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. There were no impacts of this amendment reflected in our revenue for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011 and our amended agreement with AT&T retained the prior terms, including the fee per subscriber per month model. For the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, AT&T represented 37% and 34% of our total revenue, respectively. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . In March 2011, we entered into amendments to our agreement with Ford, to which we provide an in-dash navigation solution. The amendments modified the nature of certain of our obligations under our original agreement, and provided for additional payments to us. As a result of these modifications, we now recognize revenue from customized software upon delivery to, and acceptance by, Ford of our in-dash navigation solutions, and we recognize royalty revenue earned from the distribution of our customized software in vehicles as the vehicles are produced. In addition, we recognize third party content and related costs of revenue when revenue is recognized. These amendments resulted in the recognition of an additional $6.6 million in revenue from Ford in the three months ended March 31, 2011, including revenues previously deferred in periods prior to January 1, 2011. Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We primarily derive our revenue from our wireless carrier partners for their customers subscriptions to our LBS, as well as from activation fees for certain of our services. Our wireless carrier partners pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) commencing in September 2010, a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier partners with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier partners pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our LBS as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our LBS on a stand alone basis. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as Apples or Googles Android. In addition, we derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. In the future, we may have other revenue models. For example, we recently implemented revenue models, including fees for advertising supported arrangements, and basic versions of our services that allow for upgrades to more premium versions for a fee. Our wireless carrier partners are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our LBS. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier partners, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier partner, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier partner, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier partner in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for any subscriber may vary considerably, and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier partners generally have sole discretion about how to price our LBS to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through our website and through application stores. 17 Table of Contents Subscription fees from our wireless carrier partners represented substantially all of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Sprint and AT&T represented 43% and 37% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011, respectively, and 55% and 34% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2010, respectively. Subscription fees from our GPS Navigator service represented 89% and 94% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions, enterprise LBS (sometimes referred to as mobile resource management, or MRM), mobile advertising and commerce and premium LBS represented 11% and 6% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In absolute dollars, revenue from our non-GPS Navigator services, which include enterprise LBS, increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2010. GPS Navigator is our flagship voice guided real time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service. Our enterprise LBS solutions allow enterprises to monitor and manage mobile workforces and assets by using our LBS platform to track job status and the location of workers, field assets and equipment. We are developing other LBS solutions with new business models and distribution channels in our current LBS market and adjacent markets. These solutions include in-dash navigation services, location based mobile advertising and commerce services and premium LBS. While we have already introduced certain components or initial versions of several of these LBS solutions, the scope and timing of broader and more commercially viable offerings is uncertain. The ultimate scope and timing of any future releases are dependent on many factors including adoption by wireless carrier partners and automotive suppliers and manufacturers of the LBS solutions; end user adoption and preferences; the quality, features and timing of our product offerings; the impact of competition; and market acceptance of mobile advertising and social networking. We believe our cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to cover the costs of these development efforts. In the nine months ended March 31, 2011, we generated 96% of our revenue in the United States. In absolute dollars, revenue from our international operations increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2010 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2010. We are pursuing expansion opportunities with our wireless carriers in other countries and therefore expect international revenue to increase in absolute dollars over the longer term. Cost of revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of the third party content, such as map, POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology that we use in providing our LBS. Our cost of revenue also includes expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software and stock-based compensation. The largest component of our cost of revenue is the fees we pay to providers of map and POI data, TomTom Maps and Navigation Technologies Corporation, or NAVTEQ. We have long term agreements with TomTom Maps and NAVTEQ pursuant to which we pay royalties according to a variety of different fee schedules, including on a per use basis, on a per end user per month basis and commencing in fiscal 2011, on a fixed fee basis for certain navigation offerings. We primarily provide customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. We use three outsourced, hosted data centers to provide our services and industry standard hardware to provide our LBS. We generally offer to our wireless carrier partners and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier partner agreement. We expect that our cost of revenue will increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue as the number of our end users increases, including those through bundled or free offerings, average use of our services by end users increases and additional operating costs and depreciation associated with our planned data center capacity increases, as well as increased amortization of capitalized software development costs. In addition, we anticipate that cost of revenue will increase over time as we continue to enhance the richness of the content offered by our products and if we increase the level of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, facilities, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of options granted, based on the department in which the option holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. Our operating expenses increased in absolute dollars in fiscal 2010 and the first nine months of fiscal 2011 as we became a public company and built our infrastructure and added employees across all categories to support our growth, develop new services and products, and expand into international markets. We expect our operating expenses to continue to increase in the remainder of fiscal 2011 as we continue in these endeavors. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development employees and use of outside consultants. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. The majority of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a substantial portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese renminbi (RMB). 18 Table of Contents Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs and advertising. As we primarily rely on our wireless carrier partners to market and promote our services to their subscribers, our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of the cost of supporting our wireless carrier partners and attracting new wireless carrier partners to offer our LBS. We cooperate with our wireless carrier partners in marketing our LBS solutions to their subscribers by preparing marketing materials and working with them on promotional campaigns. We also promote our service offerings through a variety of other programs and online advertisements. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, consultants, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional fees and corporate expenses. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. During the nine months ended March 31, 2010, other income (expense), net also included the expense resulting from the change in fair value of our outstanding Series E preferred stock warrants. We classified these warrants as liabilities on our balance sheets and recorded changes in their fair value from period to period in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of income. As of December 31, 2009, all remaining outstanding Series E preferred stock warrants had been exercised and the warrant liability was reclassified to preferred stock. The preferred shares converted to common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering and were reclassified as common stock and additional paid in capital. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned from our LBS in the United States. We expect our income tax expense for fiscal 2011 to be approximately 39% of pretax income because of the concentration of earnings in the United States. Our effective tax rate could be reduced if our international revenue substantially increases as a percentage of revenue, due to the lower corporate tax rates available in certain countries outside the United States and the availability of net operating loss carryforwards in those countries. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. With the exception of revenue recognition discussed below, there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010. Revenue recognition . We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of those services has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We primarily derive our revenue from subscriptions to access our LBS, which are generally provided through our wireless carrier partners that offer our services to their subscribers. Our wireless carrier partners pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) commencing during the three months ended September 30, 2010, a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user. We recognize monthly fees related to our services in the month we provide the services. We defer amounts received in advance of the service being provided and recognize the deferred amounts when the monthly service has been provided. We recognize revenue for fixed annual fees for any number of subscribers receiving our services as part of bundles monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. Our agreements do not contain general rights of refund once the service has been provided. We also establish allowances for estimated credits subsequently issued to end users by our wireless carrier partners. We defer activation fees received upon the initiation of certain services and recognize the deferred amounts over the estimated average length of subscription to the service, historically 16 months. 19 Table of Contents We recognize as revenue the amount our wireless carrier partners report to us as we provide our services, which are net of any revenue sharing or other fees earned and deducted by our wireless carrier partners. We are not the principal provider when selling access to our LBS through our wireless carrier partners as the subscribers directly contract with our wireless carrier partners. In addition, we earn a fixed fee or fixed percentage of fees charged by our wireless carrier partners and our wireless carrier partners have the sole ability to set the price charged to their subscribers for our service. Our wireless carrier partners have direct responsibility for billing and collecting those fees from their subscribers and we and our wireless carrier partners may offer subscribers a 30-day free trial for our service. We also derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties earned from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. We generally recognize software customization revenue using the completed contract method of contract accounting under which revenue is recognized upon delivery to, and acceptance by, the automobile manufacturer of our in-dash navigation solutions. We generally recognize royalty revenue as the vehicles are produced, assuming all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. In certain instances, due to the nature and timing of monthly revenue and subscriber reporting from our wireless carrier partners, we may be required to make estimates of the amount of LBS revenue to recognize from a wireless carrier partner for the current period. For example, several of our wireless carrier partners do not provide us with sufficient monthly individual subscriber billing period details to allow us to compute the allocation of monthly service fees to the individual end users service period, and in such cases we make estimates of any required service period revenue cutoff. In addition, if we fail to receive an accurate revenue report from a wireless carrier partner for the month, we will need to estimate the amount of revenue that should be recorded for that month. These estimates may require judgment, and we consider certain factors and information in making these estimates such as: subscriber data supplied by our wireless carrier partners; wireless carrier partner specific historical subscription and revenue reporting trends; end user subscription data from our internal systems; and data from comparable distribution channels of our other wireless carrier partners. If we are unable to reasonably estimate recognizable revenue from a wireless carrier partner for a given period, we defer recognition of revenue to the period in which we receive and validate the wireless carrier partners revenue report and all of our revenue recognition criteria have been met. If we have recorded an estimated revenue amount, we record any difference between the estimated revenue and actual revenue in the period when we receive the final revenue reports from our wireless carrier partner, which typically occurs within the following month. 20 Table of Contents Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the consolidated statements of income data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, Nine Months Ended March 31, Consolidated Statements of Income Data 2011 2010 2011 2010 (Unaudited) (in thousands) Revenue $ 57,110 $ 45,101 $ 156,232 $ 121,652 Cost of revenue 12,739 7,173 30,419 21,130 Gross profit 44,371 37,928 125,813 100,522 Operating expenses: Research and development 14,239 10,782 40,739 28,083 Sales and marketing 6,699 4,511 17,229 12,523 General and administrative 5,701 3,612 14,170 9,275 Total operating expenses 26,639 18,905 72,138 49,881 Income from operations 17,732 19,023 53,675 50,641 Other income (expense), net 305 (20 ) 750 (330 ) Income before provision for income taxes 18,037 19,003 54,425 50,311 Provision for income taxes 6,872 6,462 20,862 19,513 Net income $ 11,165 $ 12,541 $ 33,563 $ 30,798 Three Months Ended March 31, Nine Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 2011 2010 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 22 16 19 17 Gross profit 78 84 81 83 Operating expenses: Research and development 25 24 26 23 Sales and marketing 12 10 11 10 General and administrative 10 8 9 8 Total operating expenses 47 42 46 41 Income from operations 31 42 35 42 Other income (expense), net 1 (1 ) Income before provision for income taxes 32 42 35 41 Provision for income taxes 12 14 14 16 Net income 20 % 28 % 21 % 25 % Additional Key Metrics Average monthly revenue per user (ARPU) $ 0.71 $ 1.02 $ 0.81 $ 1.05 Average monthly paying end users (in millions) 22.5 14.5 19.9 12.7 21 Table of Contents Comparison of the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 Revenue . Revenue increased 27% to $57.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $45.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Revenue increased 28% to $156.2 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $121.7 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. These increases were due to growth in the number of average monthly paying end users to 22.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from 14.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and to 19.9 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from 12.7 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010, primarily resulting from the continued adoption of Sprints Simply Everything and Any Mobile, Anytime plans which include our LBS, as well as an increase in end users of AT&T Navigator and TeleNav GPS Navigator with T-Mobile. In addition, revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2011 included $7.5 million from the in-dash navigation solutions we provided for Ford vehicles, which included $6.6 million recognized as a result of the amendments to our agreement with Ford in March 2011. We calculate average monthly paying end users for a period by averaging the number of paying end users for each month in the period, and exclude any users that subscribe under daily or annual plans. Generally, we consider a paying end user to be a wireless carrier subscriber for whom we are paid and for which such subscribers mobile device has the capability to access our LBS. Average monthly revenue is calculated by dividing revenue for the period associated with paying end users by the number of months in the period. ARPU is calculated by dividing average monthly revenue by average monthly paying end users. We exclude from our ARPU calculation users and revenue associated with our automotive navigation solutions. Although our end users increased substantially, our ARPU declined 30% to $0.71 in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $1.02 in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and declined 23% to $0.81 in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $1.05 in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. These declines in ARPU were due in large part to the September 2010 amendment to our agreement with Sprint as discussed below, whereby we now receive a fixed fee from Sprint to provide our services to subscribers to Sprints service bundles (up to certain thresholds) and we no longer receive additional revenue for additional Sprint bundle subscribers using our services. We anticipate that as a result of the changes to our agreement with Sprint, ARPU will become a less meaningful indicator of the health of our business. In September 2010, we amended our agreement with Sprint, which changed the way in which we receive revenue from the majority of the services we provide to Sprints subscribers. Rather than receiving a fee per subscriber per month, we agreed to receive a guaranteed annual fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. The annual fee will change from year to year over the contract period and limits the maximum number of subscribers covered under such fee in a given year. Sprint will generally pay us these annual fees in advance. In return, Sprint agreed that our right to be Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications would be broadened and our preferred supplier rights are extended from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2012. Sprint may terminate our agreement for any reason, beginning June 30, 2012, by providing notice at least 30 business days prior to termination. We and Sprint also agreed that Sprint branded navigation services offered as part of a bundled offering will transition to TeleNav branded navigation services over time. In addition, bundle opportunities are expanded and may include Sprints prepaid subscriber base in the future. We recognize revenue for the aggregate annual fees monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. Our portion of the revenue sharing arrangements for monthly recurring charge navigation subscribers, enterprise LBS subscribers and revenue generated from mobile commerce services was increased under the amendment and will also apply to revenue generated from other premium services we may provide to bundled and other subscribers during the term of the agreement. Growth in the number of end users for the periods presented primarily reflects Sprints decision to continue to offer and promote certain bundles in which all end users under those plans receive the right to use our LBS without additional charge. Because a substantial majority of our end users are able to access our LBS through bundled offerings, our ARPU has declined; however, the substantial increase in number of end users has resulted in an increase in revenue. As a result of these pricing strategies and the September 2010 amendment to the Sprint agreement, ARPU declined by $0.31 from $1.02 in the three months ended March 31, 2010 to $0.71 in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and declined $0.24 from $1.05 in the nine months ended March 31, 2010 to $0.81 in the nine months ended March 31, 2011; however, the average monthly paying end users of our LBS increased by 54% and 57% and our revenue increased 27% and 28% during the same periods, respectively. The impact of the $0.31 decline in ARPU for our 14.5 million average monthly paying end users during the three months ended March 31, 2010 was a reduction in revenue based on these end users of $13.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The impact of the lower ARPU was more than offset by the 8.0 million increase in average monthly paying end users, from 14.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 to 22.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, resulting in a net revenue increase of $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The impact of the $0.24 decline in ARPU for our 12.7 million average monthly paying end users during the nine months ended March 31, 2010 was a reduction in revenue based on these end users of $27.4 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2011. The impact of this lower ARPU was more than offset by the 7.2 million increase in average monthly paying end users, from 12.7 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2010 to 19.9 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2011, resulting in a net revenue increase of $26.6 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2011. We believe we would not have achieved these increases in revenue had we not adopted these pricing strategies. Based on the terms of our current contracts, we anticipate that ARPU from our LBS will decline if bundled subscriptions continue to increase. Additionally, in general, ARPU may also decrease if the proportion of end users of white label offerings increases or if competition intensifies, or if prices to end users decline. 22 Table of Contents In the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, revenue from Sprint represented 36% and 55% of our revenue, respectively, and revenue from AT&T represented 34% and 34% of our revenue, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2011, revenue from Ford represented 13% of our revenue. In the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, revenue from Sprint represented 43% and 55% of our revenue, respectively, and revenue from AT&T represented 37% and 34% of our revenue, respectively. No other wireless carrier or other customer represented more than 10% of our revenue in either period. Subscription fees from our GPS Navigator service represented 81% and 94% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and represented 89% and 94% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions, enterprise LBS (sometimes referred to as mobile resource management, or MRM), mobile advertising and commerce and premium LBS represented 19% and 6% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and represented 11% and 6% of our revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. . We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 94% and 97% of our revenue, respectively, and in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 96% and 97% of our revenue. Cost of revenue . Our cost of revenue increased 78% to $12.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $7.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased to 22% from 16% in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our cost of revenue increased 44% to $30.4 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $21.1 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 increased to 19% from 17% in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The substantial majority of our cost of revenue related to costs of third party content and technology that we use in providing our LBS such as map, POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology. The remaining portion of our cost of revenue included expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software and stock-based compensation. In addition, we expensed certain capitalized software development costs associated with revenue recognized from Ford during the three months ended March 31, 2011. Cost of revenue increased at a significantly higher rate than the 27% increase in revenue for the comparable three month period ended March 31, 2011 primarily as a result of the third party content and related costs associated with the in-dash navigation revenue from Ford and, to a lesser extent, the effect of the fixed fee amendment with Sprint signed in September 2010. This amendment resulted in a lower rate of revenue per end user in the three months ended March 31, 2011 without an equivalent decrease in the respective costs related to such end users. Cost of revenue increased at a higher rate than the 28% increase in revenue for the comparable nine month period ended March 31, 2011, primarily as a result of the third party content and related costs of the in-dash navigation revenue from Ford. The increases in cost of revenue in absolute dollars were primarily driven by the increase in our number of end users. The majority of the increases in cost of revenue in absolute dollars in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 were due to 61% and 28% increases in third party content costs, respectively, as well as increased software amortization costs, including capitalized development costs expensed in connection with revenue from Ford, and increased customer support costs. On September 17, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the TomTom Maps agreement, or the TomTom Maps Amendment. The terms of the TomTom Maps Amendment were retroactively effective as of August 1, 2010 and changes the fee structure for map and POI data we use to provide its services for Sprints bundled offerings. The material impact of the TomTom Maps Amendment is to better align the manner in which we pay fees to TomTom Maps with the manner in which we receive revenue from Sprint. Pursuant to the TomTom Maps Amendment, we will pay TomTom Maps a percentage of the fees earned from Sprint for basic navigation services and gross advertising and mobile commerce revenue and a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium navigation services. We also will pay TomTom Maps certain guaranteed minimum payments for such services. Previously, we paid TomTom Maps a specific fee per subscriber or a per transaction fee for our Sprint bundled offerings. The expiration of the license period for navigation services provided by TomTom Maps for Sprints bundled offerings has been changed from July 1, 2014 to the earlier of December 31, 2012 or the date of termination of our agreement with Sprint with respect to those bundled services. We anticipate these changes to our TomTom Maps agreement will reduce in part the impact on our cost of revenue of the anticipated increase in the number of Sprint bundle subscribers without offsetting increases in revenue. However, we expect that our cost of revenue will increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue as the number of our end users increases, average usage of our services by end users increases and from amortization and depreciation expense associated with planned data center capacity increases, as well as increased amortization of capitalized software development costs. In addition, we anticipate that cost of revenue will increase over time as we continue to enhance the richness of the content offered by our products and if we increase the level of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions. We also anticipate that ARPU from our LBS will continue to decline, which will further increase cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue. 23 Table of Contents Gross profit . Our gross profit increased 17% to $44.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $37.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010, and increased 25% to $125.8 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $100.5 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010, primarily due to an increase in the number of our end users. Our gross margin decreased to 78% in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from 84% in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our gross margin decreased to 81% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from 83% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011. The decreases in gross margin were due to the increased proportion of revenue contributed from our in-dash navigation solutions, which generally have higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our LBS services provided to our wireless carrier partners. We expect our gross margin to decline due to slowing revenue growth as a result of the new fixed fee arrangement with Sprint, lower anticipated ARPU from our LBS, and higher anticipated usage of third party content by our end users. We also anticipate we will earn lower gross margins on certain other product offerings, such as in-dash navigation products. Changes in product mix may also cause gross margins to decline over time. Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 32% to $14.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $10.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our research and development expenses increased 45% to $40.7 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $28.1 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010.The increases were primarily due to the costs associated with increased headcount to enhance the functionality of our services and develop new offerings and increased compensation and benefits for our existing employees. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 25% in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from 24% in the three months ended March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 26% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from 23% in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The total number of research and development personnel increased 12% to 751 at March 31, 2011 from 670 at March 31, 2010. We believe that as we continue to invest in expanding the LBS products we offer, establish relationships with new wireless carrier partners and develop new services and products, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the incurrence of related research and development expenses. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand the services and products we offer. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 49% to $6.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $4.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our sales and marketing expenses increased 38% to $17.2 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $12.5 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 12% in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from 10% in the three months ended March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 11% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from 10% in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The increase in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011 was the result of increased investment in our marketing and business development organizations, including the hiring of additional and more experienced personnel, including two vice presidents. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our relationships with wireless carrier partners and engage in programs to market our services to their subscribers. We may incur additional costs transitioning our Sprint Navigation branded services to TeleNav branded navigation services, which would lead to an increase in our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue and in absolute dollars. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses increased 58% to $5.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $3.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our general and administrative expenses increased 53% to $14.2 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $9.3 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The increases were primarily due to added personnel, consultants utilized for our preparations for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, audit and tax professional fees and legal costs. Legal costs included settlement of certain intellectual property litigation and increased legal fees for litigation, intellectual property protection and immigration. The total number of general and administrative personnel increased 28%, to 73 at March 31, 2011 from 57 at March 31, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 10% in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from 8% in the three months ended March 31, 2010, and increased to 9% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from 8% in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the remainder of fiscal 2011 as we incur legal fees and potentially other costs in connection with litigation in which we are named defendants or our wireless carrier partners are named defendants and for which they have notified us that they are seeking or may seek indemnification from us. We also expect to incur additional general and administration expenses in the remainder of fiscal 2011 and beyond associated with being a public company, including higher legal, corporate insurance, audit and tax and financial reporting expenses as well as the costs of achieving and maintaining compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Other income (expense), net . Our other income (expense), net was $305,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to $(20,000) in the three months ended March 31, 2010. The change was primarily due to increased interest income due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances. Our other income (expense), net was $750,000 in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 compared to $(330,000) in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The change was primarily due to elimination of the expense related to the increase in fair value of our Series E preferred stock warrants and, to a lesser extent, increased interest income due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances. 24 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes increased to $6.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 from $6.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Our effective tax rate was 38% and 34% for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate is due to the difference in the tax benefit recognized for a tax deduction related to Qualified Domestic Production Activities under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our provision for income taxes increased to $20.9 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 from $19.5 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. Our effective tax rate was 38% in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 compared to 39% in the nine months ended March 31, 2010. The decrease in our effective tax rate is primarily due to the extension of the federal research and development credit. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $4.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at March 31, 2011 is $3.4 million that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We do not believe that the unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash for each of the periods set forth below: Nine Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 112,991 $ 19,888 Net cash used in investing activities (177,548 ) (7,142 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (8,114 ) 285 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (73 ) (50 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (72,744 ) $ 12,981 At March 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $211.3 million, which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, municipal securities, corporate bonds, and commercial paper held by well-capitalized financial institutions. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in two wireless carrier partners. As of March 31, 2011, our accounts receivable balance was $27.7 million, of which Sprint and AT&T represented 7% and 56%, respectively. Our accounts receivable balance due from Sprint will fluctuate based upon the timing of invoicing and payment under Sprints fixed annual fee arrangement. In addition, Ford represented 12% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2011. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. Our cash flow from operations will include payments to be received under the September 2010 amendment to our agreement with Sprint. Such payments will generally be made by Sprint prior to our providing all services, and Sprint has no refund right to these payments. However, we may experience lower than expected cash generated from operating activities, revenue that is lower than we anticipate, or greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our wireless carrier partners, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them; we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, including against competitors who offer their services for free; our wireless carrier partners were to elect not to market and distribute our LBS to end users; our wireless carrier partners were to elect to lower the prices charged to their subscribers for our service; or if we were to experience a decline in our ARPU without a proportionate decrease in the average cost per end user. In the future, we may acquire complementary businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash provided by operating activities . Net cash provided by operating activities was $113.0 million and $19.9 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The improvement in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the increased number of end users of our services and related revenue generated from those end users, offset to a lesser extent by increases in our operating costs. Cash provided by or used in operating activities has historically been affected by growth in our end user base and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily due to increased headcount and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our services. In the nine months ended March 31, 2011, cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $33.6 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $7.4 million and stock-based compensation of $2.9 million, and $67.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities which resulted primarily from an increase in deferred revenue of $60.7 million as a result of Sprints prepayment under its fixed annual fee arrangement, and a decrease in accounts receivable of $9.6 million. 25 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities . We used net cash in investing activities of $177.5 million and $7.1 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The cash was used primarily for purchases of short-term investments and property and equipment and internal software development costs. We expect to increase our capital expenditures in future periods as we continue to invest in the infrastructure needed to operate our services for an increasing end user base, as well as in equipment and facilities for our growing worldwide employee base as we expand our business. In the nine months ended March 31, 2011, cash used in investing activities was used principally for purchases of short-term investments of $172.6 million, net of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, and capital expenditures of $4.1 million. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . We generated (used) cash in our financing activities of $(8.1) million and $285,000 during the nine months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, due to proceeds from the exercise of options for our common stock, net of any repurchases of our outstanding stock. In November 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program for the repurchase of up to $20 million of our shares of common stock through open market purchases pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions and other considerations. Under our stock repurchase program, we used $9.7 million of cash to repurchase 1,002,500 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $9.71 per share during the nine months ended March 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2011, the remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under this repurchase program was $10.3 million. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of March 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of $25.5 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to license fees due to certain of our third party content providers over the next five fiscal years. The aggregate of $25.5 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $4.9 million due in fiscal 2011; $13.4 million due in fiscal 2012; $5.3 million due in fiscal 2013; $1.6 million due in fiscal 2014; and $0.3 million due in fiscal 2015. The above commitment amounts exclude amounts already recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.