Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, future sources of revenue, expectations of expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this 17 Table of Contents Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us, our and "Telenav" refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 as fiscal 2015" and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2016 as "fiscal 2016. Overview Telenav is a leading provider of location-based platform services. These services consist of our automotive and mobile navigation platform and our advertising delivery platform. Our auto and mobile navigation platform allows Telenav to deliver enhanced location-based services to auto manufacturers, developers, and end users through various distribution channels, including wireless carriers. Our advertising delivery platform delivers highly targeted advertising services leveraging our location expertise. We report operating results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. For our automotive segment customers, we offer our auto and mobile navigation platform services to vehicle manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for distribution with their vehicles. Our primary automotive customer to date, Ford Motor Company, or Ford, currently distributes our on-board product as an optional feature with all of its models in the U.S. Our automotive products are now included on models manufactured in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe and China, as well as offered in models in South America, Australia and New Zealand. In addition, in July 2015, Ford New Zealand and Australia adopted a map update program as part of its Sync 2 product distribution. Under this program, Ford owners with Sync 2 will be eligible to receive annual map updates at no additional cost through December 2023. Ford will pay us an annual fee and a per unit fee for these updates. In January 2014 we entered into an agreement with General Motors Corporation, or GM, for integration of our on-board and connected navigation solutions in its vehicles, which we expect to launch in model year 2017. Our relationship with GM also includes brought-in services for vehicles, and in January 2015 GM launched the new version of its OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform, which includes mapping and one-box search. In July 2015, we and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota, announced a partnership for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link will be available in Entune Audio Plus equipped model year 2016 Toyota vehicles in the United States. In August 2015, Toyota began shipping vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application. These models now include select 2016 Camry, Corolla, 4Runner, Sequoia and Tundra models, in addition to the previously announced Tacoma. We believe our history as a supplier of cloud-based navigation services provides a unique advantage in the automotive navigation marketplace over our competitors. For our advertising segment customers, we believe our advertising delivery platform offers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We are experts in location-based advertising and believe we offer unique value to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers through our location targeting capabilities. Our technology focuses on managing the complexity and scale associated with mobile location data to deliver better mobile campaigns for our advertising partners. We deliver mobile advertisements by leveraging our proprietary in-house ad serving technology. Our inventory, or accessible market, is comprised of thousands of mobile applications and mobile websites that are accessed through programmatic real-time bidding, or RTB, tools. We derive revenue from automobile manufacturers and OEMs, advertisers and advertising agencies, and wireless carriers. We receive revenue from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our personalized navigation services. These manufacturers have typically not provided us with any volume or revenue guarantees. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies, which represent national and regional brands, and channel partners, which work closely with local and small business advertisers. We also derive revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers, who pay us to enable their subscribers to use our mobile navigation services. Some of these wireless carriers bill their subscribers on a monthly recurring basis and the number of those monthly recurring subscribers to which we provide services continues to decline, resulting in substantial declines in our revenue from wireless carriers. 18 Table of Contents We generate revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform. Ford pays us a royalty fee on Sync 2 on-board solutions as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles with our automotive navigation solutions and pays us a royalty fee on Sync 3 on-board solutions as the hardware that includes our software is received by Ford. In addition, we earn a one-time royalty for each new vehicle owner who downloads the GM OnStar RemoteLink application, whereby we provide enhanced search capabilities for contracted service periods. We also earn a one-time royalty for each new Toyota enabled to connect with our mobile application. We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. We also generate revenue from subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. Recent Developments In September 2015, we entered into an agreement with Ningbo Huazhong Holdings Company Limited, or Huazhong, a subsidiary of a publicly traded automotive OEM supplier in China, whereby we and Huazhong agreed to form a joint venture limited liability company in China for the development, manufacture and sales of connected navigation systems for the China automotive aftermarket and local OEMs. We agreed to invest RMB 9.95 million (approximately $1.6 million as of September 30, 2015) in cash, which is expected to represent 19.9% of the equity interests of the joint venture. We and Huazhong have also agreed to negotiate a Technology License Agreement, or TLA, whereby we will license our existing navigation platform technologies to the joint venture in exchange for a RMB 5.0 million license fee. Our capital contribution will be made in two installments, with the first installment totaling RMB 4.95 million due on the later date of (a) October 30, 2015, and (b) one week after the date on which the joint venture is established. Our second installment totaling RMB 5.0 million is due upon certain conditions being met, among them completion of the TLA and our receipt of the RMB 5.0 million TLA fee from the joint venture company. On October 16, 2015, we entered into a lease termination agreement with our landlord for the termination of our office lease dated June 28, 2011 for corporate facilities on DeGuigne Drive in Sunnyvale, California. The lease termination is to become effective on (a) March 31, 2016 with respect to 920 DeGuigne Drive and 950 DeGuigne Drive; and (b) June 30, 2016 with respect to 930 DeGuigne Drive. The effect of this lease termination agreement is to reduce our total operating lease obligations, net of sublease income, as of September 30, 2015 by $19.3 million. Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures such as billings, non-GAAP net income (loss), adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, and diluted non-GAAP net income (loss) per share are not measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): 19 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Revenue $ 44,061 $ 34,987 Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 47,902 $ 34,908 Gross margin 47 % 54 % Non-GAAP gross margin 49 % 57 % Automotive gross margin 42 % 47 % Automotive non-GAAP gross margin 43 % 48 % Advertising gross margin 38 % 36 % Advertising non-GAAP gross margin 47 % 47 % Mobile navigation gross margin 75 % 74 % Mobile navigation non-GAAP gross margin 75 % 76 % Net loss $ (10,846 ) $ (7,937 ) Non-GAAP net loss $ (7,051 ) $ (3,872 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (6,390 ) $ (5,515 ) Diluted net loss per share $ (0.27 ) $ (0.20 ) Diluted non-GAAP net loss per share $ (0.17 ) $ (0.10 ) September 30, June 30, 2015 2015 Deferred revenue $ 10,669 $ 6,828 Billings measures revenue recognized plus the change in deferred revenue from the beginning to the end of the period. We consider billings to be a useful metric for management and investors because billings drives deferred revenue, which is an important indicator of the health and viability of our business. There are a number of limitations related to the use of billings versus revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, billings include amounts that have not yet been recognized as revenue and may require additional services to be provided over contracted service periods; for example, billings related to certain connected solutions cannot be fully recognized as revenue in a given period due to requirements for ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring and customer support. Second, we may calculate billings in a manner that is different from peer companies that report similar financial measures. When we use these measures, we compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding revenue and evaluating billings together with revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP. Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Non-GAAP gross margin measures our gross margin, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense and capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses. Non-GAAP net loss measures GAAP net loss, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, and other applicable items such as legal settlements, certain unique tax matters and restructuring costs, net of taxes or tax benefits. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Stock-based compensation expense has been and will continue to be a significant recurring non-cash expense for us. While we include the dilutive impact of such equity awards in weighted average shares outstanding, the expense associated with stock-based awards reflects a non-cash charge that we exclude from non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share, and adjusted EBITDA. Capitalized software amortization expense represents internal software costs that are previously capitalized and charged to expense as the software is used in our operations. Developed technology amortization expense relates to the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Our non-GAAP tax rate differs from the tax rate due to the elimination of any tax effect of the stock-based compensation expenses, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, and applicable legal settlements, restructuring costs, and other items, including unique tax matters, that are being eliminated to arrive at the non-GAAP net income (loss). Adjusted EBITDA measures our GAAP net loss excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization, interest income, other income (expense), provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other applicable items such as 20 Table of Contents legal settlements and restructuring costs, net of tax. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss and this metric excludes certain non-cash expenses, interest and other income (expense), income taxes, and certain other items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. In addition, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA are key financial measures used by the compensation committee of our board of directors in connection with the development of incentive-based compensation for our executive officers. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Diluted non-GAAP net income (loss) per share is calculated as non-GAAP net income (loss) divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the use of cash for net share settlements of RSUs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss), adjusted EBITDA and diluted non-GAAP net income (loss) per share alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other GAAP financial results. The following tables present reconciliations of revenue to billings, gross margin to non-GAAP gross margin, net loss to non-GAAP net loss and net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Auto Ads Mobile Navigation Total Revenue $ 31,743 $ 4,851 $ 7,467 $ 44,061 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 3,817 124 (100 ) 3,841 Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 35,560 $ 4,975 $ 7,367 $ 47,902 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 Auto Ads Mobile Navigation Total Revenue $ 19,502 $ 3,975 $ 11,510 $ 34,987 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 22 (101 ) (79 ) Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 19,524 $ 3,975 $ 11,409 $ 34,908 Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Gross margin 42 % 47 % 38 % 36 % 75 % 74 % 47 % 54 % Adjustments: Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 1 % 1 % 9 % 11 % % 2 % 2 % 3 % Non-GAAP gross margin 43 % 48 % 47 % 47 % 75 % 76 % 49 % 57 % The impact of adjusting for stock-based compensation in determining non-GAAP gross margin is less than 1% for all periods presented. Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 GAAP net loss $ (10,846 ) $ (7,937 ) Adjustments: Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 708 903 Stock-based compensation expense: Cost of revenue 32 24 Research and development 1,458 1,500 Sales and marketing 840 764 General and administrative 757 1,100 Total stock-based compensation expense 3,087 3,388 Tax effect of adding back adjustments (226 ) Non-GAAP net loss $ (7,051 ) $ (3,872 ) Non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.17 ) $ (0.10 ) Weighted average shares used in computing non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted 40,601 39,538 22 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 GAAP net loss $ (10,846 ) $ (7,937 ) Adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 3,087 3,388 Depreciation and amortization 1,069 1,477 Interest and other income (expense), net 187 (1,303 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 113 (1,140 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (6,390 ) $ (5,515 ) Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our brought-in automotive navigation services, advertising services and mobile navigation services. We report operating results in three business segments: Automotive, Advertising and Mobile Navigation. Our chief executive officer, or CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments. See " - Results of operations" and Note 11 to the financial statements in this Form 10-Q for more information about our business segments. Revenue from our Automotive segment represented 72% and 56% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Ford represented 69% and 53% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Our contract with Ford expires in December 2017. The agreement may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term and the other party agrees to such renewal. We provide both on-board and brought-in connected navigation solutions to Ford. Our on-board solution consists of software, map and POI data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. Our brought-in connected solution enables a mobile device that is paired with the vehicle to activate in-vehicle text-based and voice-guided turn by turn navigation. We recognize revenue from our brought-in connected solutions monthly based on annual subscriptions, which are subject to a maximum annual fee with Ford. This revenue is classified as services revenue and represented less than 5% of overall automotive navigation solutions revenue. Our product revenue is primarily derived from our automotive on-board solutions as the related customized software is delivered to, and accepted by our customers. In addition, we recognize royalties earned from our Ford Sync 2 on-board solutions as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles; however, we currently recognize revenue from Ford Sync 3 as the hardware that includes our software is received by Ford. By June 2016, we anticipate that our Ford Sync 3 arrangement will transition to title transfer as our software is installed in the vehicle and, accordingly, the timing of our revenue recognition will change. As Ford ramps up sales of vehicles with Sync 3, this transition could result in a lag period during which we have reduced revenue. The effect of this change in timing of revenue recognition may be greater for vehicles manufactured outside North America. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . In January 2015, GM launched the new version of its OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform. We earn a one-time royalty for each new vehicle owner who downloads the RemoteLink application. We record the royalty earned as deferred revenue and recognize this revenue over the estimated service period. In July 2015, Ford New Zealand and Australia adopted a map update program as part of its Sync 2 product distribution. Under this program, Ford owners with Sync 2 will be eligible to receive annual map updates at no additional cost through December 2023. Ford will pay us an annual fee and a per unit fee for these updates. We record the amount billed for these map updates as deferred revenue and recognize this revenue over the estimated service period. In August 2015, Toyota began shipping vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application. We earn a one-time royalty for each new Toyota sold and equipped with Entune Audio Plus, and we record the royalty earned as 23 Table of Contents deferred revenue. Upon delivery of all elements of the contract, we will recognize this revenue over the estimated service period. Royalties earned and revenue recognized related to Toyota were not material in the three months ended September 30, 2015. Revenue from our Advertising segment, which includes the delivery of search and display, location-based ads, represented 11% of our revenue in each of the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Our advertising revenue is derived from ad insertion orders contracted with advertising agencies, direct customers, and channel partners. Our ad search revenue is earned from the delivery of location-based ad impressions targeted to end users engaged in a specific search task utilizing our mobile navigation solutions. Such ad search revenue represented less than 10% of our overall advertising revenue. Our display revenue relates to the advertising business developed via our Thinknear acquisition that delivers targeted location-based impressions to end users of third party developer applications. We also offer voice-guided, real-time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Scout by Telenav and Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands). Revenue from our Mobile Navigation segment represented 17% and 33% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service declined from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to 2015, primarily due to the termination of the fixed fee with Sprint in September 2013 and a substantial decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and others, including T-Mobile USA, or T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular Corporation, or USCC, and Comunicaciones Nextel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of NII Holdings, Inc., or NII Mexico. AT&T represented 11% and 20% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In March 2015, our agreement with AT&T was automatically renewed, under its existing terms through March 2016, and provides that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our navigation services. During fiscal 2016, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T for a material portion of our revenue; however, we have seen substantial declines in the number of paying subscribers for our services through AT&T over the past few years and we expect them to continue to decline substantially . We derive services revenue primarily from our wireless carrier customers for their end users' subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier customers with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier customers pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services on a standalone basis. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as the Apple App Store and the Google Play marketplace. Finally, we provide free versions of our services which can generate revenue through advertising supported arrangements, and subscriber upgrades to premium versions for a fee. We also derive services revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. In the future, we may have other revenue models. For services that our subscribers purchase through our wireless carriers, our wireless carrier customers are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our navigation services. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user in our revenue sharing arrangements may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier customers generally have sole discretion about how to price our mobile navigation services to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through application stores and marketplaces. For fiscal 2016, we expect automotive and advertising revenue to represent the growing components of our revenue but our expectations may not be realized. However, while we anticipate our revenue to increase in fiscal 2016, the lower gross margins generally experienced with automotive and advertising revenue are expected to result in an overall lower gross profit in 24 Table of Contents fiscal 2016. We expect that services revenue from wireless carrier customers will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2016 due to the continued decline in the number of monthly recurring subscribers. In the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , we generated 97% and 94% of our revenue, in the United States, respectively. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturer's or OEM's United States' entity. As we continue to increase our offering of various embedded and connected solutions for automotive customers, it is likely that the complexity of various accounting rules and required criteria may make revenue recognition more challenging in the years to come. Consequently, we believe that billings, a non-GAAP metric, in conjunction with revenue and deferred revenue will be important metrics to measure in assessing the growth and health of the business. See " - Key operating and financial performance metrics" for further discussion about billings. Cost of revenue We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions and recognition of deferred development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third party content, third party exchange ad inventory, data center operations and outsourced hosting services, customer support, amortization of capitalized software, stock-based compensation and amortization of developed technology that we incur in providing our navigation and advertising network services. We also capitalize and defer recognition of certain licensed map and POI content costs from third parties in a manner similar to deferred revenue for our connected and value-added automotive solutions. Such deferred costs are recognized over the requisite service period and amounted to $5.8 million as of September 30, 2015. As the deferred revenue and related deferred costs are recognized as the underlying services are provided, we will also incur ongoing costs of revenue for network operations, hosting and data center, and customer service support over time. We primarily provide mobile navigation service customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. In addition, we use outsourced, hosting services and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally offer to our wireless carrier customers and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier customer agreement. The largest component of cost of revenue as it relates to our advertising business is the cost of location-based, third party advertising inventory which we acquire from advertising exchanges. Our search ad inventory is generated from our user base of paid and freemium users of our Scout and Telenav branded and carrier branded mobile navigation solutions. Other notable costs of our advertising business are the cost of ad delivery via contracted hosted relationships and the cost of our advertising operations. While we expect that our services revenue from wireless carrier customers will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2016, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate, if at all, as the decline in services revenue. Although we successfully transitioned to utilizing OSM content for the majority of our mobile user base resulting in notable cost savings, we expect to continue to incur significant costs, especially related to third party content as well as for outsourced hosting services. Cost of services revenue related to our advertising business will be impacted by our ability to grow advertising revenue, as well as the cost and availability of display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges. While our product revenue is expected to increase in fiscal 2016 due to continued growth in automotive, much of this growth will be generated from distribution of our automotive solution with Ford in China and Europe where the underlying content costs are significantly higher on a per unit basis. Consequently, we expect that our overall total cost of revenue will increase as a percentage of revenue as we increase the percentage of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. 25 Table of Contents Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, advertising sales commissions, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, third party contractor and temporary staffing services, facilities-related costs including rent expense, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount in, or reallocation of employee personnel into, our growth areas, which include automotive and advertising, with a recent emphasis on hiring advertising sales personnel and related support functions. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development and product management employees and costs of outside consultants and temporary staffing. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. In addition to our U.S. employee base, a significant number of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB. In addition, with our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler, we have a significant number of employees in Romania and incur research and development expenses in the Romanian Leu. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from wireless carriers, which bore much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers, as well as consumers acquired through open market application stores. More recently, our automotive and advertising revenue have represented the most rapidly growing components of our revenue, and we have recently invested significantly in building our advertising sales team. Our sales and marketing activities supporting our automotive navigation services include the costs of our business development efforts. Our automotive manufacturer partners and OEMs also provide primary marketing for our on-board and brought-in navigation services at the time a vehicle is sold to their end customer. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gain or loss on investments and foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned or losses incurred in the United States or corporate income tax refunds expected to be derived from losses incurred in the United States that may be carried back to prior fiscal years. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly in those periods in which we incur losses, due to our ability to benefit from the carryback of net operating losses within the carryback period and the available amount therein, if any. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis our tax rates can fluctuate and could be adversely affected by increases in nondeductible stock-based compensation or other nondeductible expenses, as well as changes in our tax reserves. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. 26 Table of Contents There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 2015 2014 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 31,109 $ 18,916 Services 12,952 16,071 Total revenue 44,061 34,987 Cost of revenue: Product 18,083 10,178 Services 5,304 5,782 Total cost of revenue 23,387 15,960 Gross profit 20,674 19,027 Operating expenses: Research and development 17,987 16,998 Sales and marketing 6,998 6,196 General and administrative 6,235 6,213 Total operating expenses 31,220 29,407 Loss from operations (10,546 ) (10,380 ) Other income (expense), net (187 ) 1,303 Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (10,733 ) (9,077 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 113 (1,140 ) Net loss $ (10,846 ) $ (7,937 ) 27 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Revenue: (as a percentage of revenue) Product 71 % 54 % Services 29 % 46 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 41 % 29 % Services 12 % 17 % Total cost of revenue 53 % 46 % Gross profit 47 % 54 % Operating expenses: Research and development 41 % 48 % Sales and marketing 16 % 18 % General and administrative 14 % 18 % Total operating expenses 71 % 84 % Loss from operations (24 )% (30 )% Other income (expense), net (1 )% 4 % Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (25 )% (26 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes % (3 )% Net loss (25 )% (23 )% Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit . Consolidated overview. Product revenue increased 64% to $31.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $18.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in product revenue was due primarily to an increase in royalty revenue from automotive navigation solutions we provide for our automotive customers. Services revenue decreased 19% to $13.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $16.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in services revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services, partially offset by an increase in advertising revenue. Our cost of product revenue increased 78% to $18.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $10.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase was due primarily to an increase in third party content costs associated with automotive navigation solutions as our business shifts from deriving a majority of revenue from carrier-based revenue to automobile navigation-based revenue. Our cost of service revenue decreased 8% to $5.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $5.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in cost of mobile navigation revenue associated with the decline in such revenue, partially offset by an increase in cost of advertising revenue resulting from increases in third party ad exchange inventory costs and hosting services associated with the increased impressions delivered. Our gross profit increased to $20.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $19.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Our gross margin decreased to 47% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 54% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in gross margin for the comparable three month period was primarily due to lower services revenue and the increased proportion of product revenue contributed from our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to our automotive customers, which generally has higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our mobile navigation services provided through our wireless carrier customers. We expect our overall gross margin to continue to decline as the percentage of our revenue from automotive offerings increases, and as a result of increased competition on our offering of mobile navigation services, especially from other freemium offerings. In addition, our gross margin will continue to be negatively impacted in the future by the amortization of developed technology acquired as part of our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler. 28 Table of Contents Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , revenue from Ford represented 69% and 53% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from AT&T represented 11% and 20% of our total revenue, respectively. No other customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in such periods. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 97% and 94% of our total revenue, respectively. Segments information. The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable business segments (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Revenue Automotive $ 31,743 $ 19,502 Advertising 4,851 3,975 Mobile Navigation 7,467 11,510 Total revenue 44,061 34,987 Cost of revenue Automotive 18,521 10,396 Advertising 2,995 2,540 Mobile Navigation 1,871 3,024 Total cost of revenue 23,387 15,960 Gross profit Automotive 13,222 9,106 Advertising 1,856 1,435 Mobile Navigation 5,596 8,486 Total gross profit $ 20,674 $ 19,027 Gross margin Automotive 42 % 47 % Advertising 38 % 36 % Mobile Navigation 75 % 74 % Total gross margin 47 % 54 % Automotive. Automotive revenue increased 63% to $31.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $19.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in production royalty revenue of $11.9 million. Automotive revenue included customized software and map content revenue of $0.3 million and zero in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In addition, during the three months ended September 30, 2015 , our automotive deferred revenue increased $3.8 million, primarily related to royalties earned from new vehicle owner downloads of GM's OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform, the new Ford New Zealand and Australia map update program and, to a lesser extent, our agreement with Toyota utilizing our Scout GPS Link in select 2016 model Toyotas. Automotive revenue represented 72% and 56% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cost of automotive revenue increased 78% to $18.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $10.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in third party content costs of $7.9 million associated with the increased royalty revenue and mix of revenue from Ford on vehicles sold in Europe and China, which generally has higher associated content costs. Automotive gross profit increased 45% to $13.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $9.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Automotive gross margin decreased to 42% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 47% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in gross margin in the comparable 29 Table of Contents three month period was due primarily to the higher proportion of revenue from vehicles sold in Europe and China, which generally has higher associated content costs. Advertising . Advertising revenue increased 22% to $4.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in the value of contracted insertion orders along with the number of impressions delivered. Advertising revenue represented 11% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Cost of advertising revenue increased 18% to $3.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $2.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to increased third party ad exchange inventory costs of $0.4 million and increased third party hosting service fees of $0.1 million, associated with the increased impressions delivered. Advertising gross profit increased 29% to $1.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $1.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Advertising gross margin increased slightly to 38% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 36% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Mobile Navigation . Mobile navigation revenue decreased 35% to $7.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $11.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was primarily due to lower subscription revenue resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T, T-Mobile and USCC and a decrease in mobile navigation revenue internationally. Accordingly, in the three months ended September 30, 2015 , services revenue from AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, USCC and international customers decreased by $4.0 million . Mobile navigation revenue represented 17% and 33% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cost of mobile navigation revenue decreased 38% to $1.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $3.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in data center and hosted services costs of $0.4 million, third party content costs of $0.3 million and compensation and benefits costs of $0.1 million. Mobile navigation gross profit decreased 34% to $5.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $8.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Mobile navigation gross margin was comparable at 75% and 74% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The relatively consistent margins reflect the net impact of lower revenue levels, offset by the lower cost from our successful transition to utilizing OSM maps for the majority of our mobile user base. Operating expenses Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 6% to $18.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $17.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in compensation and benefits expense of $0.4 million and a reduction in the amount of development costs deferred of $0.4 million. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased to 41% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 48% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The total number of research and development personnel decreased 5% to 437 at September 30, 2015 from 461 at September 30, 2014 . We believe that as we deliver our contracted customer requirements for our automotive customers, establish relationships with new automotive manufacturers and OEMs, enhance our service offerings around our OSM capabilities, and develop new services and products for advertisers, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the related research and development expenses. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 13% to $7.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $6.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in the comparable three month period was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits expense of $0.6 million and travel and entertainment expense of $0.3 million primarily associated with the ongoing expansion of our advertising sales team. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses decreased to 16% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 18% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel increased 16% to 80 at September 30, 2015 from 69 at September 30, 2014 . General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses were comparable at $6.2 million in each of the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . General and administrative expenses in the comparable three month period primarily reflect an increase in legal expenses of $0.9 million, resulting primarily from ongoing intellectual property litigation, that was offset by decreases in compensation and benefits expense of $0.3 million, stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 30 Table of Contents million, severance pay of $0.2 million and travel and entertainment expense of $0.2 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 14% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 18% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The total number of general and administrative personnel decreased 12% to 57 at September 30, 2015 from 65 at September 30, 2014 . We anticipate that our general and administrative expenses may vary substantially from period to period as our legal expenses associated with ongoing intellectual property litigation and requests for indemnification related to intellectual property litigation proceed. Other income (expense), net . Our other income (expense), net was $(0.2) million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and $1.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Other income, net for the three months ended September 30, 2014 included a $0.5 million foreign exchange gain and $0.4 million other income from our transaction services agreement with Fleetcor Technologies Operating Company, LLC. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes was $0.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $(1.1) million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Our effective tax rate, which resulted in the recognition of a tax expense, was 1% in the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to an effective tax rate, which resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit, of 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Our effective tax rate of 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was less than the tax benefit computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to losses for which no benefit will be recognized since they are not more likely than not to be realized due to the lack of current and future income and the inability to carryback losses within the two year carryback period. Our effective tax rate of 13%, which resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2014 was less than the tax benefit computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to the increase in the valuation allowance as a result of the limitations of benefit from the loss carryback. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $6.1 million . Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015 was $1.7 million that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We had $0.5 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have subsidiaries. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2015 in the U.S., for fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2015 in state jurisdictions, and for fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2015 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. Due to operating losses in previous years and continued earnings volatility, we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our foreign deferred tax assets. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2015 was $17.7 million . In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. On December 19, 2014, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 became effective, which provides one year retroactive tax relief for businesses by reinstating retroactively to January 1, 2014, certain tax benefits and credits that had expired. These provisions automatically expired again on December 31, 2014. The research and development credit was retroactively extended in this legislation. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,869 ) $ (3,953 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 992 9,412 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,679 ) 675 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (184 ) (645 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (6,740 ) $ 5,489 At September 30, 2015 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $111.7 million , which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, asset-backed securities, municipal securities and agency and corporate bonds held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2015 , our accounts receivable balance was $38.4 million , of which Ford and AT&T represented 63% and 9% , respectively. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to grow our revenue and control expenses in fiscal 2016 and beyond, whether we return to profitability, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we expect to use cash in operating activities in fiscal 2016 and possibly beyond, and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities if revenue is lower than we anticipate or we incur greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them; we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, including against competitors who offer their services for free; our revenue did not grow as expected or we were unable to reduce our costs by using OSM. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash used in operating activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $ 5.9 million and $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is affected by changes in our declining mobile navigation end user base, anticipated growth in our auto and advertising businesses, and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2015 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $10.8 million which was offset by non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 1.1 million , stock-based compensation of $ 3.1 million , accretion of net premium on short-term investments of $ 0.2 million and $ 0.1 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , cash used in operating activities was the result of a net loss of $7.9 million and $ 1.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 1.5 million , stock-based compensation of $ 3.4 million , and accretion of net premium on short-term investments of $0.5 million . Net cash provided by investing activities . Our investing activities provided $ 1.0 million and $ 9.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, internal software development costs, and acquisitions. In the three months ended September 30, 2015 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $1.2 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $9.8 million . 32 Table of Contents Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , our financing activities provided (used) cash of $ (1.7) million and $ 0.7 million , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2015 , we utilized $0.6 million of cash to repurchase our common stock and $1.3 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs, partially offset by proceeds of $0.2 million provided from the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , proceeds of $1.4 million were provided from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.7 million of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2015 , we had an aggregate of $27.7 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $27.7 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $6.3 million due in fiscal 2016; $6.0 million due in fiscal 2017; $6.1 million due in fiscal 2018; $6.1 million due in fiscal 2019; and $3.2 million due in fiscal 2020. On October 16, 2015, we entered into a lease termination agreement with our landlord for the termination of our office lease dated June 28, 2011 for corporate facilities on DeGuigne Drive in Sunnyvale, California. The lease termination is to become effective on (a) March 31, 2016 with respect to 920 DeGuigne Drive and 950 DeGuigne Drive; and (b) June 30, 2016 with respect to 930 DeGuigne Drive. The effect of this lease termination agreement is to reduce our total operating lease obligations, net of sublease income, as of September 30, 2015 by approximately $19.3 million. In September 2015, we entered into an agreement with Ningbo Huazhong Holdings Company Limited, or Huazhong, a subsidiary of a publicly traded automotive OEM supplier in China, whereby we and Huazhong agreed to form a joint venture limited liability company in China for the development, manufacture and sales of auto entertainment systems. We agreed to invest RMB 9.95 million (approximately $1.6 million as of September 30, 2015) in cash, which is expected to represent 19.9% of the equity interests of the joint venture. We and Huazhong have also agreed to negotiate a Technology License Agreement, or TLA, whereby we will license our existing navigation platform technologies to the joint venture in exchange for a RMB 5.0 million license fee. Our capital contribution will be made in two installments, with the first installment totaling RMB 4.95 million due on the later date of (a) October 30, 2015, and (b) one week after the date on which the joint venture is established. Our second installment totaling RMB 5.0 million is due upon certain conditions being met, among them completion of the TLA and our receipt of the RMB 5.0 million TLA fee from the joint venture company. In connection with a software quality issue that was identified related to maps displayed in software deployed to certain vehicles released in North America in 2015, we have accrued a reserve of $0.1 million as of September 30, 2015. The software quality issue does not present a risk to driver safety. The actual costs are uncertain at this time and we are currently working with our customer to evaluate the appropriate solution. If the actual costs exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.