Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, future sources of revenue, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, 15 Table of Contents seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us and our refer to TeleNav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 as fiscal 2012 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013 as fiscal 2013. Overview Our mission is to make people's lives easier, less stressful, and more fun when they are on the go. Our personalized navigation and location based services, or LBS, are created to meet the challenges of on-the-go people, such as deciding where to go, what to do, how to get there and when to leave. Our most recent services have solved these challenges by creating products that uniquely provide easily accessed, relevant, personalized information for everyday discovery, daily traffic, local search and voice navigation - across phones, computers, and cars. With millions of users able to access Telenav while on the go today, we believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on growing market opportunities related to connected cars and mobile advertising. We derive revenue from wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, advertising and end users. We primarily derive our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our LBS to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or voice services and from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our navigation services. We currently provide our LBS to customers in North America, Asia, Europe and South America. Through our hosted service delivery model, we provide our solutions to end users and customers through the networks of leading wireless carriers in the United States, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile USA, Inc., or T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular Corporation, or U.S. Cellular, and through certain wireless carriers in other countries. We also provide on-board and connected off-board navigation software and services for automobile manufacturers and OEMs. Our flexible and proprietary platform enables us to efficiently reach and retain millions of end users, across all major mobile phone operating systems on a broad range of wireless network protocols as well as through advanced automotive navigation systems. This platform provides data and analytics that enable us to create more personalized experiences for mobile applications, location based advertising and customer lifecycle management. We generate revenue from service subscriptions, including premium offerings, fixed fee arrangements, software licenses, and local mobile advertising. Our customers include end users, wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs, advertisers and agencies, and enterprises. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through application stores. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services, (3) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (4) based on usage. We also derive revenue from the delivery of customized software product and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform, which includes MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. Ford began shipping this product in certain North American vehicles with the 2011 model year, and our navigation solution is currently deployed on 14 different Ford and Lincoln models. Ford and Lincoln models with our on-board automotive navigation product began shipping to South America with the 2012 model year. Our automobile manufacturer and OEM customers pay us a royalty fee upon production of a vehicle with our automotive navigation solutions. As part of our efforts to generate revenue from local mobile advertising, we acquired Local Merchant Services, Inc., or 16 Table of Contents ThinkNear, in October 2012. Our mobile advertising platform is marketed as Scout Advertising and is focused on providing scalable tools and services that will help brick-and-mortar advertisers discover and drive more customers. We help advertisers deliver hyper-local, performance based ads to consumers on connected mobile devices in both search and display-based ad formats. We also provide "drive to" reporting to our advertisers, which is the ability to measure how many consumers took action to drive to a location after viewing an advertisement. The targeting capabilities we acquired from ThinkNear allow us to target users within close proximity of specific locations, and we also leverage keywords and situational targeting to reach the right users for our advertising partners. Our platform provides the ability to deliver ads to thousands of mobile applications and is compatible with all of the major U.S. mobile operating systems. Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We offer voice-guided, real time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Scout by Telenav and Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands) including Sprint Navigation, AT&T Navigator and Your Navigator Deluxe. Our technology also powers automotive navigation solutions that provide accurate, easy to use LBS to drivers, including search, POI and traffic services. Our enterprise LBS allow enterprises to monitor and manage mobile workforces and assets by using our LBS platform to track job status and the location of workers, field assets and equipment. We have introduced other LBS solutions with new business models and distribution channels in our current LBS market and adjacent markets, including location based mobile advertising and premium LBS. While we have already introduced certain components or initial versions of several of these LBS solutions, the scope and timing of broader and more commercially viable offerings is uncertain. The ultimate scope and timing of any future releases are dependent on many factors, including adoption by wireless carrier customers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs of our LBS; end user adoption and preferences; the quality, features and timing of our product offerings; the impact of competition; and market acceptance of mobile advertising and social networking. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to cover the costs of these anticipated efforts for the foreseeable future. We primarily derive our revenue from our wireless carrier customers for their end users' subscriptions to our LBS, as well as from activation fees for certain of our services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services, (3) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (4) based on usage. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier customers with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier customers pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our LBS as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our LBS on a standalone basis. In addition, we derive revenue from the delivery of customized software product and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. More recently, we have implemented revenue models based on free versions of our services which can generate fees through advertising supported arrangements, and subscriber upgrades to more premium versions for a fee. In the future, we may have other revenue models. We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, as well as hardware we sell in conjunction with providing our enterprise LBS; services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our LBS, enterprise LBS, mobile advertising and premium LBS. Our wireless carrier customers are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our LBS. With respect to Sprint, through June 30, 2013, we will receive a guaranteed fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. We recognize revenue for the aggregate annual fees monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user in our revenue sharing arrangements may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier 17 Table of Contents customers generally have sole discretion about how to price our LBS to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through application stores. AT&T represented 39% and 38% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Our agreement with AT&T expires in March 2013 and provides that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. Sprint represented 21% and 39% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. We operate under an agreement with Sprin t, which we most recently amended in July 2012. Under this amended agreement, we and Sprint have agreed to continue the fixed fee arrangement related to the Sprint bundle through June 30, 2013, and to partner to generate revenue from premium navigation and mobile advertising programs through December 31, 2015. This amendment resulted in a significant reduction in our revenue from Sprint beginning July 1, 2012 compared to revenue levels recognized prior to the amendment. Sprint is not obligated to continue to bundle our navigation services after June 30, 2013, and even if Sprint does continue to bundle we may not receive meaningful compensation for such distribution of our services. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T and to a lesser extent, Sprint for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . Ford represented 20% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and less than 10% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . We provide both an on-board and an off-board connected navigation solution to Ford. Our on-board solution consists of software, map and POI data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. We recognize revenue from our on-board solutions as the related customized software is delivered to, and accepted by our customers. In addition, we recognize royalties earned from our on-board solutions generally as the software is reproduced and installed in vehicles. Our off-board connected solution enables a mobile device that is paired with the vehicle to activate in-vehicle text-based and voice-guided turn by turn navigation. We recognize revenue from our off-board connected solutions monthly based on annual subscriptions, which are subject to a maximum annual fee with Ford. Subscription fees from our wireless carrier customers represented a substantial majority of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 . Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service represented 67% and 84% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service declined from the three months ended September 30, 2011 to the three months ended September 30, 2012 , primarily due to the transition to a fixed fee with Sprint and a decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and T-Mobile. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions represented 20% and 8% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Revenue from our enterprise LBS, mobile advertising and premium LBS represented 13% and 8% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , we generated 93% and 95% of our revenue, respectively, in the United States. In absolute dollars, revenue from our international operations increased in the three months ended September 30, 2012 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2011. Cost of revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of the third party content, such as map, POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology that we use in providing our LBS. Our cost of revenue also includes expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred development costs on specific projects and stock-based compensation. The largest component of our cost of revenue is the fees we pay to providers of map and POI data, TomTom and NAVTEQ. We have long term agreements with TomTom and NAVTEQ pursuant to which we pay royalties according to a variety of different fee schedules, including on a per use basis, on a per end user per month basis and on a fixed fee basis. With respect to both TomTom and NAVTEQ, we are required to pay certain minimum fees for access to their content by our mobile navigation customers. For our on-board navigation solutions provided to Ford, we pay royalties on a per unit produced basis. We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content we incur in providing our on-board auto navigation solutions and recognition of deferred development costs, as well as the cost of hardware we sell in conjunction with providing our enterprise LBS. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third party content, data center operations, customer support, amortization of capitalized software and stock-based compensation that we incur in providing our LBS, enterprise LBS, mobile advertising and premium LBS. 18 Table of Contents We primarily provide customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. We use three outsourced, hosted data centers to provide our services and industry standard hardware to provide our LBS. We generally offer to our wireless carrier customers and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier customer agreement. We use map and POI data from TomTom to provide services for Sprint's bundled offerings. We pay TomTom a percentage of the fees earned from Sprint for basic navigation services and gross advertising and a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium services. We also pay TomTom certain guaranteed minimum payments for such services. The expiration of the license period for navigation services we provide using data provided by TomTom for Sprint's bundled offerings is June 30, 2013. We expect that our cost of revenue will increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue as we increase the percentage of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions, which generally have higher associated third party content costs than our navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. In addition, our cost of revenue will increase as the number of our end users increases, including those through freemium offerings, and average usage of our services by end users increases. We anticipate that our cost of revenue will also increase over time as we continue to enhance the richness of the content offered by our products. Finally, our cost of revenue will be impacted by amortization and depreciation expenses associated with planned data center capacity and redundancy increases, as well as increased amortization and recognition of deferred software development costs. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, facilities, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. Our operating expenses increased in absolute dollars in the last three fiscal years, as we became a public company and built our infrastructure and added employees across all categories to support our growth, developed new services and products, and expanded into international markets. We expect that certain costs will continue to increase over time, including compensation and related costs; however, we are evaluating spending in certain areas and taking actions to create greater efficiencies. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount in, or reallocation of employee personnel into, our strategic growth areas. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development employees and costs of outside consultants. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. A majority of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales, product management and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from wireless carriers, which bear much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers. As a result, the majority of our sales and marketing expenses relate to supporting our wireless carrier customers and attracting new wireless carrier customers to offer our LBS. We expect to increase our investment in sales and marketing activities, in part, to support our initiatives in the auto industry and mobile advertising and to promote our branded services directly to end users. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income, net . Other income, net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits 19 Table of Contents earned in the United States. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected by increases in nondeductible stock compensation or other nondeductible expenses, Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2012 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2012. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of income data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. 20 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Income Data 2012 2011 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 9,300 $ 4,069 Services 36,656 48,663 Total revenue 45,956 52,732 Cost of revenue: Product 4,532 1,894 Services 7,880 8,422 Total cost of revenue 12,412 10,316 Gross profit 33,544 42,416 Operating expenses: Research and development 15,604 16,479 Sales and marketing 8,601 7,467 General and administrative 5,997 6,250 Total operating expenses 30,202 30,196 Income from operations 3,342 12,220 Other income, net 422 492 Income before provision for income taxes 3,764 12,712 Provision for income taxes 1,063 4,528 Net income $ 2,701 $ 8,184 Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 2011 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Product 20 % 8 % Services 80 % 92 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 10 % 4 % Services 17 % 16 % Total cost of revenue 27 % 20 % Gross profit 73 % 80 % Operating expenses: Research and development 34 % 31 % Sales and marketing 19 % 14 % General and administrative 13 % 12 % Total operating expenses 66 % 57 % Income from operations 7 % 23 % Other income, net 1 % 1 % Income before provision for income taxes 8 % 24 % Provision for income taxes 2 % 8 % Net income 6 % 16 % 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 2011 Additional Key Metrics (in millions) Total end users as of period end 34.3 27.8 Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 Revenue . Product revenue . Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, as well as hardware we sell in conjunction with providing our enterprise LBS. Product revenue increased 129% to $9.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $4.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The increase was due primarily to increased revenue from automotive navigation solutions we provide for Ford vehicles, including the launch of our solutions in additional Ford and Lincoln models. Services revenue . Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our LBS, enterprise LBS, mobile advertising and premium LBS. Services revenue decreased 25% to $36.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $48.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The decrease was due primarily to lower revenue from Sprint resulting from our July 2012 Sprint amendment, which resulted in a significant reduction in our fixed fee revenue from Sprint for bundled users beginning July 1, 2012, and lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T and T-Mobile. These decreases were partially offset by growth in monthly subscription fees from end users of our mobile navigation services provided through U.S. Cellular, growth in revenue from monetization of freemium offerings through wireless carriers and application stores, and growth in mobile navigation revenue internationally. . The majority of our end users receive access to our navigation application through bundled offerings, for which we are paid by the carrier that offers such bundles. We also have end users that pay a fee for our navigation offerings through either a monthly or annual subscription to our voice-guided turn by turn navigation service, including users who pay to upgrade to our premium services. In addition to paying end users, we have users of our freemium offerings, which include free voice-guided turn by turn navigation for certain Android platforms and a free visual navigation application for the iPhone. While we do not directly collect revenue from these free basic navigation services, we offer a path to upgrade to premium paid services, and we also leverage these customers to drive mobile advertising revenue. Freemium offering end users as of period end represents the number of freemium subscribers who activated service within the last 12 months. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , revenue from Sprint represented 21% and 39% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from AT&T represented 39% and 38% of our total revenue, respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 , Ford represented 20% of our total revenue. No other customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in either period. Subscription fees from our mobile navigation service represented 67% and 84% of our total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 93% and 95% of our total revenue, respectively. Cost of revenue . Cost of product revenue . Our cost of product revenue increased 139% to $4.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $1.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 , which was slightly higher than the 129% increase in product revenue due primarily to an increase in third party content costs. Cost of services revenue . Our cost of services revenue decreased 6% to $7.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $8.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Cost of services revenue decreased at a lower rate than the 25% decrease in services revenue for the comparable period primarily due to our July 2012 Sprint amendment, which resulted in a significant reduction in our fixed fee revenue from Sprint beginning July 1, 2012. Cost of revenue decreased in absolute dollars primarily due to a decrease in third party content costs and decreased data center costs, which were partially offset by increased customer support costs. Gross profit . Our gross profit decreased to $33.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $ 42.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Our gross margin decreased to 73% in the three months ended 22 Table of Contents September 30, 2012 from 80% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The decrease in gross margin was due to lower services revenue from Sprint and the increased proportion of product revenue contributed from our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to Ford, which generally have higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our LBS services provided through our wireless carrier customers. We expect our gross margin to continue to decline as the percentage of our revenue from automotive offerings increases, and as a result of increased competition on our offering of mobile navigation services especially from other freemium offerings. In addition, our gross margin will be negatively impacted in the future by the anticipated amortization of developed technology assets acquired as part of our acquisition of ThinkNear. Research and development . Our research and development expenses decreased 5% to $15.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $16.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to decreased compensation and benefits costs associated with decreased average headcount, primarily in our China offices. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 34% in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from 31% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The total number of research and development personnel decreased 20% to 614 at September 30, 2012 from 767 at September 30, 2011 . We believe that as we continue to invest in expanding the LBS we offer, establish relationships with new wireless carrier customers and develop new services and products, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the related research and development expenses. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand the services and products we offer. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 15% to $8.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $7.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The increase was primarily due to increased advertising and promotion expenses. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 19% in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from 14% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel increased 8% to 148 at September 30, 2012 from 137 at September 30, 2011 .We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase over time in absolute dollars. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses decreased 4% to $6.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $6.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to decreased legal costs, partially offset by increased costs associated with higher compensation and benefits. The total number of general and administrative personnel decreased 9%, to 69 at September 30, 2012 from 76 at September 30, 2011 . As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from 12% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Other income, net . Our other income, net was $422,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and $492,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes decreased to $1.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from $4.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Our effective tax rate was 28% in the three months ended September 30, 2012 compared to 36% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 . Our effective tax rate of 28% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 was lower than the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate, as well as our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2011 , due primarily to a discrete benefit of $1.0 million as a result of changes in intercompany arrangements. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2012 and June 30, 2012, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $ 4.6 million and $ 4.4 million , respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2012 is $ 3.7 million that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We had $ 213,000 and $ 181,000 accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2012 and June 30, 2012, respectively. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have subsidiaries. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2012 in the U.S., for fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012 in state jurisdictions, and for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2012 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. Liquidity and capital resources 23 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below: Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities 21,856 3,286 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (10,705 ) 11,489 Net cash used in financing activities (2,749 ) (6,643 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) (44 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 8,395 $ 8,088 At September 30, 2012 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $ 216.6 million , which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, municipal securities, corporate bonds, and commercial paper held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2012 , our accounts receivable balance was $ 30.9 million , of which AT&T and Ford represented 43% and 27% , respectively. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations for the foreseeable future. However, we may experience lower than expected cash generated from operating activities, revenue that is lower than we anticipate, or greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our wireless carrier and automotive customers, three of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them. During the three months ended September 30, 2012, we received prepayment of the guaranteed fixed fee related to Sprint bundle subscribers for fiscal 2013. Sprint is not obligated to continue to bundle our navigation services after June 30, 2013. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash provided by operating activities . Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 21.9 million and $ 3.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities has historically been affected by growth in our end user base and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily due to increased headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 , cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $ 2.7 million , adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 1.9 million , stock-based compensation of $ 1.4 million and accretion of premium on short-term investments of $ 1.1 million , and $ 14.8 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities which resulted primarily from an increase in deferred revenue of $19.3 million as a result of Sprints prepayment under its fixed annual fee arrangement. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 , cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $ 8.2 million , non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 2.1 million , and stock-based compensation of $ 1.2 million , partially offset by $ 8.8 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . We used net cash in investing activities of $ 10.7 million and generated net cash from investing activities of $ 11.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Cash used in investing activities has historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment and internal software development costs. We expect to make additional purchases of property and equipment in future periods as we continue to invest in the infrastructure needed to operate our services for an increasing end user base, as well as replace equipment nearing the end of its service life. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 , cash used in investing activities was used principally for purchases of short-term investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, of $ 9.6 million , purchases of property and equipment of $ 0.5 million , and additions to capitalized software of $ 0.4 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2011 , cash provided by investing activities was 24 Table of Contents provided principally from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $ 16.9 million , partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $ 2.8 million and acquisition costs of $1.8 million, net of cash acquired. Net cash used in financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 , we used cash in our financing activities of $ 2.7 million and $ 6.6 million , respectively, primarily to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase programs. In the three months ended September 30, 2012 , we utilized $ 3.0 million of cash to repurchase 496,537 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $ 6.01 per share, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 , we utilized $ 7.9 million of cash to repurchase shares of our common stock, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2012 , we had an aggregate of $46.4 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $46.4 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $12.4 million due in fiscal 2013; $9.8 million due in fiscal 2014; $5.8 million due in fiscal 2015; $4.0 million due in fiscal 2016; $4.1 million due in fiscal 2017, and $10.4 million due thereafter.