Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and Business. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Corporate information Our predecessor company, TeleNav, Inc., incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1999 and we incorporated in the State of Delaware in 2009 as TNAV Holdings, Inc. Pursuant to stockholder approvals received in December 2009, our predecessor company merged with and into us on April 15, 2010. As the entity surviving the merger, upon completion of the merger, we changed our name to TeleNav, Inc. Our executive offices are located at 950 De Guigne Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94085, and our telephone number is (408) 245-3800. Our website address is www.telenav.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Form 10-K. We file or furnish periodic reports, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at http://investor.telenav.com/financials.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. In this Form 10-K, we, us and our refer to TeleNav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The names Evie, MyTies, MyMileage, ONMYWAY , RoadAssist, Scout, Sipity , Smart Planner, Telenav , Telenav Asset Tracker, Telenav Connected Service, Telenav GPS Fleet, Telenav GPS Navigator, Telenav Navigator, Telenav Scout, Telenav Shotgun, Telenav Track , Telenav Track LITE, Telenav Track Premium, Telenav Vehicle Manager, Telenav Vehicle Tracker, and Whereboutz as well as the Telenav and Scout logos are our trademarks. All other trademarks and trade names appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Our mission is to make peoples lives easier, less stressful, fun and more productive when they are on the go. Our personalized mobile navigation and location based services, or LBS, are created to meet the challenges of on-the-go people, such as deciding where to go, when to leave, how to get there and what to do. Our most recent services have solved these challenges by creating products that (1) uniquely provide easily accessed, relevant, personalized information for discovery, traffic, local search and navigation and (2) are available across the multiple integral tools used when fighting the daily commute, shopping and running errands, exploring town for dining and entertainment, and travelling, including mobile phones, tablets, computers and cars. With millions of users able to access Telenav while on the go today, we believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on growing market opportunities related to connected cars and mobile advertising. We derive revenue from wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, advertising and end users. We primarily derive our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our LBS to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or voice services and from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our navigation services. We currently provide our LBS to customers in North America, Asia, Europe and South America. Through our hosted service delivery model, we provide our solutions to end users and customers through the networks of leading wireless carriers in the United States, including AT&T Mobility LLC, or AT&T, Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint, T-Mobile USA, Inc., or T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular Corporation, or U.S. Cellular, and through certain wireless carriers in other countries. We also provide on-board and connected off-board navigation software and services for automobile manufacturers and OEMs. Our flexible and proprietary platform enables us to efficiently reach and retain millions of end users, across all major mobile phone operating systems on a broad range of wireless network protocols as well as through advanced automotive navigation systems. This platform provides data and analytics that enable us to create more personalized experiences for mobile applications, location based advertising and customer lifecycle management. We generate revenue from service subscriptions, including premium offerings, fixed fee arrangements, software licenses, and local mobile advertising. Our customers include end users, wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs, advertisers and agencies, and enterprises. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through application stores. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services, (3) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (4) based on usage. We also derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford Motor Company, or Ford, utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform, which includes MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. Ford began shipping this product in certain North American vehicles with the 2011 model year, and our navigation solution is currently deployed on 12 different Ford and Lincoln models. Ford and Lincoln models with our on-board automotive navigation product began shipping to South America with the 2012 model year. Our fiscal year ends June 30. In this Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, 2011 and 2012 as fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. Our total revenue grew from $171.2 million in fiscal 2010 to $210.5 million in fiscal 2011 and to $218.5 million in fiscal 2012. Our net income increased from $41.4 million in fiscal 2010 to $42.6 million in fiscal 2011 and decreased to $32.4 million in fiscal 2012. 1 Table of Contents Personalized Mobile Navigation Services Industry background The mobile phone is the most widely used portable communication device in the world and continues to play an increasingly prominent role in consumers and business professionals lives. Significant improvements in device technologies and the deployment of advanced mobile wireless networks have not only enhanced mobile phones performance, but also made possible the integration of features and functions such as email, instant messaging, Internet browsing, running discrete applications and various forms of multimedia. Historically, these features and functions were only available on Internet connected PCs. The inclusion of location determination technologies, such as the satellite based Global Positioning System, or GPS, in mobile phones has allowed location data to be used to enhance and expand the services that can be delivered to mobile phone users and contributed to the emergence of the LBS market. In an effort to remain competitive, mobile phone manufacturers and wireless carriers are continuously introducing mobile phones with enhanced features and functions, including GPS. Mobile phones that incorporate GPS technology are typically capable of supporting advanced mobile phone operating systems and rich data applications because of other enhancements, such as faster processors, increased memory and larger high resolution screens. Wireless carriers continue to invest billions of dollars deploying 3G and 4G wireless networks worldwide. In combination, these advancements and investments have changed the way consumers access and interact with Internet-based content and services, effectively bringing the richness of the PC based Internet experience to the mobile phone and enabling the emergence of LBS. The LBS market offers multiple opportunities for expansion . The LBS market consists of advanced mobile Internet and data applications that leverage location information to provide mobile phone users with location specific and personalized features and functions. LBS that incorporate location information include voice-guided turn by turn navigation, route planning, real time traffic alerts and points of interest, or POI, and local searches. Beyond these navigation-specific services, new mobile LBS, such as location based advertising, and social networking, have emerged. Heightened consumer awareness of the scope and benefits of these services is leading to increased demand. These dynamics result, in part, from the availability of advanced GPS enabled mobile phones and wireless networks as well as wireless carriers strong marketing efforts as they seek to increase revenue from data-centric applications, such as LBS. LBS are not limited to mobile phone-based navigation services. LBS enable consumers to enjoy benefits of an enhanced mobile Internet experience, such as location based advertising and social networking on their mobile phones and on other mobile devices. LBS also enable consumers to enjoy an enriched navigation experience in their cars. Similarly, services such as Mobile Resource Management or MRM, enable enterprises to leverage the benefits of LBS to more effectively and efficiently manage their mobile resources. In response to consumer demand for affordable and easy to use LBS, LBS providers are developing and introducing new applications that integrate location information in innovative ways. For example, a consumer can use a mobile phone almost anytime and anywhere to help them quickly decide where to go, when to leave, how to get there and what to do. As LBS applications increasingly incorporate consumers locations and preferences, targeted mobile advertising will become more compelling and valuable to advertisers and marketers. Major hardware and service providers have responded to these LBS trends. For example, Apple Inc., or Apple, has recently announced its intention to offer maps and voice - guided turn by turn directions as part of its next operating system release (iOS6), which effectively means these capabilities will be free to consumers who have this update on their handsets. Google, Inc., or Google, offers free voice-guided turn by turn, mobile navigation software on Android phones, including local search and traffic information. Nokia Corporation, or Nokia, provides a download for its latest version of turn by turn navigation utilizing voice and Nokia Maps on its smart phone products to consumers free of charge. Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, also provides free voice-guided turn by turn navigation software on its Windows Mobile and Windows Phone operating systems. 2 Table of Contents Enterprises are seeking solutions that enable them to cost effectively and efficiently manage their mobile resources, as well as their company data, communications and work flow. Historically, these solutions required the deployment of costly applications and hardware, primarily limiting the use of these solutions to large enterprises. The development and widespread availability of LBS provides enterprises of all sizes with a viable alternative MRM. Enterprise grade LBS solutions can help increase the adoption of mobile business applications. MRM solutions give business customers visibility over their mobile assets while enabling the movement of real time information like work orders and proof of service processes. Industry challenges Technological advancements have led consumers to expect immediate access to the latest, most accurate information, real time responses and greater convenience at lower cost in both their personal and professional lives. As a result, wireless carriers are investing heavily in wireless network infrastructure and partnering with handset OEMs, application providers and mobile operating system providers, to keep pace with end user demand and the latest technologies. At the same time, the market for mobile services is undergoing a dramatic shift resulting from the introduction and rapid adoption of the Apple iPhone and its application marketplace, the App Store, followed by Google introducing Android and the Google Play marketplace. Challenges facing end users . Consumers are becoming increasingly dependent upon their mobile devices for much more than just communication, including seeking services that make their lives easier and more productive. They are also seeking to leverage their devices and the locational capabilities for social purposes. Today, however, many of these services are provided as narrow vertical solutions requiring several applications instead of as a solution that maximizes the personal elements that mobile devices can leverage to meet user needs. Enterprises also face the challenge of managing the complexity of their organizations and increasing the productivity of their workforces and assets in a cost effective manner. Addressing basic needs such as locating, tracking and dispatching workforces, as well as delivering time sensitive information to and from the field, is often difficult and expensive. Developing solutions that securely link enterprises information technology infrastructure with diverse mobile devices in the field typically requires costly, time consuming implementations that rely largely on customized components. Challenges facing wireless carriers . Wireless carriers are under pressure to increase revenue and enhance subscriber loyalty. Their core voice businesses are threatened by several key factors, including strong competition in a heavily penetrated market, a lack of subscriber loyalty due to phone number portability and potential competition from free voice service providers. Compounding these issues, wireless carriers are under increasing pressure to invest in infrastructure to keep pace with consumer expectations and the demand for low cost, reliable and increasingly faster network service. Additionally, some mobile phone manufacturers and mobile phone operating system providers are seeking to develop direct relationships with consumers, which could weaken the existing relationship wireless carriers share with their subscribers. For example, mobile application stores are replacing carrier operated distribution channels, and certain mobile phone manufacturers do not allow wireless carriers to customize the applications preloaded on the mobile phone. Our competitive strengths We are one of the early pioneers in LBS and have a 13-year history of developing and delivering advanced and personalized mobile navigation and other LBS solutions. The breadth and depth of our technical and market expertise has enabled us to develop robust LBS, attract a large end user base and establish deep relationships with wireless carriers and other members of the LBS value chain, including mobile phone manufacturers and content, applications and technology providers. Large and growing end user base . As of June 30, 2012, we had 33.8 million users able to access our services. Our large and growing end user base, and our experience supporting a broad range of mobile phones, 3 Table of Contents mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols, enables us to realize economies of scale and deliver incremental value to existing and future end users and our distribution partners, as well as third party content and advertising providers. By delivering our services to millions of end users across the mobile phone, Internet and cars, we can leverage our product development costs and expertise more effectively and efficiently. The potential returns to third party content and advertising providers are higher across a larger end user base, which will make them more inclined to partner with us. Strong and deep partnerships with key members of the LBS value chain . Our LBS are deployed by 13 wireless carriers in 30 countries, including leading wireless carriers in the United States. Our wireless carrier customers continue to make investments that foster our long term relationships because our LBS assist them in increasing their data average revenue per user, or ARPU, decrease churn and strengthen their subscriber relationships. Our back-end systems are tightly integrated with those of our wireless carrier customers, which enables the seamless delivery of our services from product launch to billing. We also collaborate closely with mobile phone manufacturers and operating system, or OS, providers so that our services work in many countries and on a wide range of mobile phones and wireless network protocols. We work with the mobile phone manufacturers and OS providers to distribute our products through their application stores, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. We also have strong and deep relationships with application developers and map and other content providers. These relationships allow us to develop and deliver high quality, robust LBS to our end users. Leveraged distribution channels to expand user base. Our hosted delivery model enables us to offer our wireless carrier customers and consumers customized versions of our LBS and leverage our infrastructure, partnerships and expertise. Our offerings to wireless carriers may be white label services that enhance subscriber loyalty and can increase revenue for our wireless carrier customers while helping us to drive adoption of our LBS without incurring significant sales and marketing costs. Traditionally, we have relied on the substantial resources of our wireless carrier customers for our marketing and sales efforts. We also use our wireless carrier customers infrastructure to assist in validation and provisioning of and to bill for our services. Our wireless carrier customers may offer our services on a standalone basis or bundled with other voice and data services. We have also developed our own Scout and Telenav branded services and have been increasing the use of our brands more recently. We believe with the continuing industry shift to more open platform distribution of applications, Telenavs expansion of its own brand may provide for better positioning and name recognition for capturing new end users in the future. Our multiple distribution channel strategy gives us a competitive advantage as compared to other LBS providers that do not have the same access to such broad distribution. Our services and products We provide a range of LBS for consumers, enterprises, automobile manufacturers and OEM customers. Our core LBS include personalized mobile navigation for consumers and MRM for enterprises. We are also extending our core LBS to new device platforms, such as tablet devices, as well as developing new LBS for mobile phones, including location based mobile advertising and social networking. 4 Table of Contents Personalized navigation . We deliver our solutions through our location based technology, applications and service delivery platform, or SDP, which are tightly integrated with a broad range of mobile phones, mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols. Scout is our flagship voice-guided, real time, turn by turn, personalized navigation service that helps consumers quickly decide where to go, when to leave, how to get there and what to do. Accessed primarily through mobile phones, our service delivers many innovative features and functions and is available to end users both on a white label basis, such as AT&T Navigator, and under the Telenav and Scout brands. Our solutions use accurate, updated information to provide end users with a personalized navigation experience. Core functions: Enhanced connected features: voice-guided turn by turn directions with updated maps; 3D moving maps; automatic rerouting for missed turns; over 18 million searchable POIs in North America, including restaurants, hotels, ATMs, airports and gas stations; search along route; and integration with contacts. multi-route capability; one-box search; real time traffic, gas prices and weather information; voice recognition for address input and local business and POI searches; traffic optimized routing, intelligent one-click navigation rerouting and updated estimated time of arrival based on current traffic flow; POI reviews, including end user generated reviews and POI review sharing; real time traffic alerts specific to a chosen route; preplanned routes through our website that can be saved, downloaded to mobile phones and accessed with a one-click routing function; and address sharing. In addition, we offer Scout for Apps, an HTML5 browser-based voice guided navigation solution for developers to include in their own applications. This permits us to expand our user reach for advertising and marketing purposes. We offer our mobile navigation services to customers in a number of ways. We distribute our services through our wireless carrier partners and directly to consumers through mobile application stores and marketplaces. We provide our services for a monthly fee and more recently have begun to provide some of our services to consumers for free and provide consumers the opportunity to purchase premium versions of the product. We refer to the free to premium distribution as the freemium model of distribution. Our free products are designed to serve advertising to consumers. Our success with the freemium model depends upon our ability to generate a substantial active user base and to generate revenues from advertising and conversion of users from free to premium subscription. Mobile Resource Management . We offer enterprises an integrated suite of MRM solutions to better manage mobile workforces and fleets and improve productivity. Depending on their specific needs and requirements, enterprises may use one or all of our MRM solutions. Our Telenav Enterprise Solutions include our flagship Telenav Track service, as well as Telenav Vehicle Manager, Telenav Vehicle Tracker and Telenav Asset Tracker. 5 Table of Contents Our MRM solutions allow enterprises to monitor and manage mobile workforces and assets by using our LBS platform to track job status and the location of workers, field assets and equipment. Telenav Track enables two-way data communications between an enterprises back-end systems and its mobile workforces, providing more effective and efficient management of assignments. Workers in the field using Telenav Track can easily transmit information wirelessly to the enterprises back-end systems via our customizable workflow and flexible forms from their mobile phones. Location based mobile advertising . In fiscal 2010, we launched mobile location based Drive To advertising services that deliver targeted location based and time sensitive mobile advertising. Our unique ability to allow consumers to drive to the advertisers location has been well received in this marketplace. We currently provide mobile Search Ads and Billboard Ads to end users through our Scout and Telenav branded services and white label services. We sell advertising directly and these efforts have focused on attracting national multi-location chains to maximize our revenue opportunities. In addition, through advertising network partners, we have access to hundreds of thousands of advertisers. End user billing and support . End users are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier, which may offer our services on a standalone basis or bundled with other voice and data services. The wireless carriers bill subscribers monthly. We and our wireless carrier customers may offer subscribers a 30-day free trial for our service. We believe that the wireless carrier billing makes our services more appealing to consumers and enterprises as they are not required to pay a separate monthly charge to a different vendor. For end users who purchase our LBS through application stores we utilize the application store billing process. Our wireless carrier customers generally provide first level support to their subscribers if the wireless carrier provides our services on a white label basis. We provide secondary support for issues that cannot be resolved by our wireless carrier customers. If the service is provided under either our Telenav or Scout brand, we generally provide all support to end users. For our Telenav or Scout support functions, we utilize a combination of our own employees and third party customer support service provider located in the Philippines that provides live customer support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We provide training and technical management to their employees and assist with problem resolution. We also maintain our own call center, available during business hours, which generally focuses on support escalations for all our services and products. Automotive Navigation Services Industry background Automobile manufacturers have distributed GPS guided navigation in vehicles since the early 1990s. The initial systems were only available in high end vehicles and included every element required to provide turn by turn voice-guided navigation: video display, on-board content and software. Since that time the price point for these services has declined and the user experience has been significantly enhanced, but the primary mode of distribution as a separately priced option in most automobiles for consumers has remained constant. More recently in response to consumer demand, automobile manufacturers have begun introducing lower priced navigation units as a central component of on-board entertainment and information systems rather than as standalone units and are making navigation standard on more vehicles. These integrated units extend beyond traditional navigation units by combining audio and voice capabilities with wireless network connectivity to deliver real time LBS, such as traffic, weather information and other connected data. Automotive navigation systems are typically of two different types, on-board or off-board. On-board services are the traditional service type with all key navigation elements of the system residing in the car as a self-contained service along with the related software and content, and the system does not require access to the Internet to function. Off-board systems are delivered wirelessly through a mobile phone or other device, but use the cars internal electronic systems such as the video screen and audio capabilities. In some cases, the on-board service is enhanced by the delivery of certain live data, such as current traffic conditions delivered wirelessly to the on-board system for display, which results in a type of hybrid service capability. 6 Table of Contents Industry challenges The automobile industry is experiencing significant consumer demand for in-car connected services resulting from the availability of mobile Internet services. For example, current on-board navigation systems, or navigation systems that do not communicate with the Internet, are limited to the vehicle in which they are installed. The mapping and POI data is static, requiring time, cost and effort to update. They are typically sold as an optional feature for a one-time charge and as a result suffer from relatively low rates of adoption by consumers. Automobile manufacturers that can enhance the in-car experience with mobile connectivity and improved infotainment capabilities are finding greater acceptance from consumers, but the delivery of these capabilities is technically challenging and not a traditional part of the automobile manufacturers capabilities. This challenge is driving automobile manufacturers to seek new partners to create differentiated in-car experiences. Automobile manufacturers and OEMs want to provide connected navigation services in a way that they can be used safely by the driver keeping hands on the wheel and eyes on the road. This cannot be done by a mobile navigation application unless it is integrated with a large in-vehicle display and integrated with vehicle speakers, voice recognition and location sensors. Our competitive strengths Automobile manufacturers procure the various elements of each car that they manufacture from a number of suppliers directly and through OEMs. We work directly with automobile manufacturers such as Ford, as well as through OEMs, such as Delphi Automotive Systems LLC, or Delphi. Our strong track record as a connected navigation services provider to wireless handsets and history of working with large wireless customers has provided us with skills and technology that are well suited to meet the demands faced by todays automobile manufacturers. The sales cycle related to automobile manufacturers is long and consultative and requires direct and continuous management of the customer and OEM providers to succeed in securing business. Often the automobile manufacturer uses the sales process to help them to define the ultimate product that they choose to deliver to their end users. Our success with off and on-board navigation at Ford and the continuing shift in emphasis to connected services has demonstrated the strength of our offerings to other automobile manufacturers and OEMs. As automobile manufacturers look to more innovative offerings, historical navigation suppliers have less relevant knowledge having been providers of standalone solutions rather than integrated connected offerings. Our services and products We entered the automotive navigation services business in fiscal 2008, initially with Ford, and our first navigation product was launched in Fords 2010 model year vehicles. Since that time we have been working with automobile manufacturers and OEM customers to provide our mobile navigation services through on-board or off-board systems. Our technology powers automotive navigation services that provide accurate, easy to use and connected LBS to drivers at a low cost. We currently provide our on-board GPS navigation software for Fords second-generation SYNC system in vehicles equipped with MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. This service is enhanced by Ford with the delivery of real-time information to help drivers search, find and drive to places more reliably and efficiently. In addition, we are working with Delphi to integrate our on-board automotive platform into Delphis new, connected infotainment system which is scheduled to be introduced in model year 2013 vehicles for North America by a leading global auto maker, and thereafter in other markets worldwide. Our services allow our auto customers the flexibility to use the full range of technologies to deliver on-board or off-board services as well as to enhance our on-board services with live data for enhanced user experiences by drivers. In addition, as the market transitions such that cars are always connected our service offerings can become more personalized. Our most recent product introductions of Scout for Cars is an offering that allows automobile manufacturers to adopt this more personalized service offering and is being first introduced in connection with Ford SYNC AppLink. 7 Table of Contents Platform and architecture Our SDP and client software enable us to deliver our end user interface as well as the features and functions of our LBS on GPS enabled mobile phones and other GPS enabled devices. Service delivery platform . Our SDP is a modular and scalable platform that enables us to bring different types of information together to respond to voice or data requests by our end users. Our SDP manages different engines, such as mapping, routing, converting addresses into geographic coordinates (known as geocoding), local searches, location specific alerts, traffic alerts, searches along the route, gas prices and weather, as well as our proprietary account authentication system and other functionalities. Our SDP communicates with our client software in mobile phones or other devices over our wireless carrier customers networks. In the case of automotive navigation services, our SDP supports the delivery of dynamic content to our auto clients, both on-board and off-board. Our SDP is designed to easily add capacity for our rapidly expanding end user base through the addition of individual service elements, such as application servers or database nodes. We have developed many proprietary technologies to differentiate our LBS offerings. For example, our routing engine produces fast and accurate results, our content search engine and address capture engine provide end users with accurate and relevant results, and we provide voice activated search and address input that is customized for street names. In addition, our SDP has the following advantages that further strengthen our position in the LBS industry: Tight integration with many wireless carrier networks . Our SDP allows us to operate effectively with the networks of our wireless carrier customers, minimize downtime and achieve efficient server load balancing. Our SDP is integrated with our wireless carrier customers back-end systems, such as billing and authentication, permitting rapid end user verification and improved response times. For example, we maintain a dedicated connection from our data center to one of our wireless carrier customers data centers, which enables a faster, superior service. Integration with a large number of third party content providers . Our SDP is integrated with many third party content providers through our proprietary applications. This integration facilitates a high quality end user experience by enabling the delivery of rich local information and more accurate search results by removing duplicate and conflicting data, and providing the flexibility to incorporate a wide array of content, including POI, traffic, gas prices and weather information. The flexibility of our SDP enables us to quickly add new content providers and meet evolving market demands, including any specialized demands of the automobile manufacturers and OEMs as well as content that will serve automobile manufacturers and OEMs on a global basis. Scalability to other applications and business models . Our SDP is scalable, which allows us to address rapid growth in our end user base. For example, our SDP is able to support different applications and business models such as our GPS Navigator, our wireless carrier customers white label navigation services, Telenav Track, and location based mobile advertising. Client software Client application approach . Our client application approach is to deliver a flexible client application environment, which enables us to quickly and effectively support different mobile phones and integrate with the continually evolving feature sets they include to create a better user experience. Our client software interfaces with our SDP to access updated information and data, routing and other services without using device memory for data intensive functions such as map and POI storage. Our client software conducts core navigation functions such as GPS data noise filtering, 3D moving map generation, and user friendly audio and graphical guidance generation. Our client software also enables our user interface to capture end user requests, including through voice recognition. 8 Table of Contents Intuitive user interface . Our LBS provide one-button access to local information, an intuitive user interface and consistent features and functions regardless of the mobile phone, mobile phone operating system or wireless network protocol the end user is utilizing. We continue to innovate with respect to the user interface, most recently with our Scout My Dashboard functionality that has been well received by our customers. For many mobile phones, we also offer customized user interfaces, features and functions based on the feature preferences of our wireless carrier customers, including the ability to obtain directions from the end users contact data on the mobile phone without having to retype the address. Automotive clients. Our clients for on-board or off-board automotive navigation services are tailored to meet the requirements of the automobile manufacturers and OEMs while leveraging our expertise with respect to client design and functionality, as well as offering the capability to connect to our SDP for updated data and services. Easy feature and functions upgrades . We can automatically provide over the air updates of enhanced versions of our service to mobile phones that use our recent client applications, without the need to upload new client software. Cached data for operation with limited connectivity . Our client applications are also built to address the realities of wireless networks. Our client applications allow us to provide simplified navigation services even if users enter an area of no or limited network connectivity by caching the route and navigation information along the route at the beginning of the trip. Technology Our proprietary technologies enable us to provide our LBS to millions of end users, across all major mobile phone operating systems and wireless network protocols and in cars. Our scalable LBS include technologies that are deployed on the client and in the back-end to deliver an integrated service. Our client technologies include a navigation and guidance engine and tools allowing us to efficiently develop and deploy new applications to mobile phones and in cars. In addition, we have developed a cross platform framework that allows us to extend our LBS applications across different mobile phone operating systems more efficiently, eliminating the need for costly and time consuming redesign and development. In Europe and Canada, end users can select a language and our client software interface and related services will be delivered in that language over the wireless network. Our client application development processes, which include design, porting and publication processes, allow us to extend our services effectively and efficiently to different mobile phones across multiple mobile phone operating systems, wireless network protocols, languages and countries. Our processes also allow us to tailor our services to different mobile phone operating systems and address different feature preferences of our wireless carrier customers. We work with our wireless carrier customers and mobile phone manufacturers prior to launch of new devices to ensure our end users have an easy to discover intuitive product experience. In addition, these flexible development processes allow us to effectively customize our technology for various automotive platforms and in-car electronic systems to meet the requirements of automobile manufacturers and OEMs. Our back-end technologies include our Geographic Information System, or GIS, engines for local search, mobile voice recognition, geo alert and advanced geo data aggregation, traffic and a local advertising platform. We have developed customized voice recognition technology built upon a third party voice recognition engine to serve the specific needs of navigation services and LBS customers. We are continuing to leverage our existing back-end technologies for deployment to the automobile manufacturer and OEM solution opportunities. We are also adapting existing technology in new ways to expand the connectivity and service offerings for in-car experiences, including interaction between end users mobile devices and automobile hardware such as displays, sensors and audio systems. 9 Table of Contents We have developed a mobile search technology that focuses on information with localized relevance and accuracy to address the needs of mobile phone users and the relatively small screens of mobile phones. We have developed a proprietary GIS which provides fast route and map generation while optimizing the route based on current traffic conditions. Because our proprietary GIS efficiently uses computing resources, these efficiencies enable us to scale our servers more economically. We have developed an application hosting and provisioning system that we integrate with the billing systems of our wireless carrier customers. Our application hosting and provisioning system provides a range of billing options designed to maximize the attractiveness of our services to end users with different payment preferences. We believe that this system allows us to deepen our relationships with our wireless carrier customers. This system is also integrated with third party verification services to allow us to bill our end users credit cards if a wireless carrier customer is not involved. Infrastructure and operations Our end users rely on our services while on the road. As a result, we strive to ensure the continuous availability of our services through our high quality hosting platform and operational excellence. Data center facilities . We have developed our infrastructure with the goal of maximizing the availability of our applications, which are hosted on a highly scalable and available network located in two secure third party facilities in Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California. We have a disaster recovery facility in Sacramento, California that is able to deploy our services to end users in the case of a prolonged outage. We have entered into service agreements with Internap Network Services Corporation, CenturyLink, formerly known as Qwest Communication Corporation, RagingWire Enterprise Solutions, Inc., and Equinix, Inc., in connection with our data center facilities in Santa Clara, Sunnyvale and Sacramento, California. Pursuant to the service agreements, we have leased facility space, power, cooling and Internet connectivity for a term of one or two years, and such agreements are subject to automatic renewal. Hosting infrastructure . Our hosting operations incorporate industry standard hardware and software, including the Apache Tomcat open source operating system and Oracle and MySQL databases, into a flexible, scalable architecture. Elements of our infrastructure can be replaced or added with no interruption in service, helping to ensure that any single hardware failure will not cause a broad service outage. Our architecture enables us to host multiple wireless carriers and millions of end users on a single server farm and is designed to use inexpensive, industry standard hardware. Our infrastructure is also designed to support the varying needs of different wireless carriers. Service level commitment . The combination of our hosting infrastructure and flexible architecture enables us to offer our wireless carrier customers at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. We target achieving an even higher level of service availability. However, we have in the past and may in the future experience service outages. Performance monitoring . We continuously monitor and optimize the performance of our SDP. We have built a custom application common logging infrastructure that continuously records the transactional behavior of the system, which can be reviewed to address any anomalies or issues. We have also built or licensed centralized performance consoles, automated load distribution tools and various self-diagnostic tools and programs. We have live performance monitoring 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to promptly identify and address any technical issues. 10 Table of Contents Research and development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development and testing of our services and products. Our engineering team has deep expertise and experience in GPS and wireless and connected services and we have a number of personnel with longstanding experience with LBS applications and scaling hosted service models. Our current research and development efforts are focused on: improving and expanding features, functionality and performance of our existing services; developing applications, services and products for new mobile phones, mobile phone operating systems and emerging wireless network technologies, and developing our technology for automobiles, desktop computers and tablets; and developing key technology and content to reduce third party costs; and developing innovative and engaging advertising products across our navigation solutions that effectively allow for highly effective targeting of end users and provide for accurate measurement of behavior. Our development strategy is to identify features, services and products that are, or are expected to be, needed or desired by our end users. We also work closely with our wireless carrier customers to develop and offer service features that are attractive to their subscriber base, which are complementary to their other offered applications, and strategies to address their need to increase subscribers and revenue. As of June 30, 2012, our research and development team consisted of 654 people, 229 of whom are located in Sunnyvale, California and 423 of whom are located in Shanghai and Xian, China. We have been successful in creating cross border capabilities in the United States and China for high value engineering at lower cost. Our U.S. and China research and development operations function together on service and product development and extension of our existing services to new mobile phones. Our research and development expenses were $41.6 million, $56.5 million and $68.5 million for fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. We expect that the absolute dollar amount of our research and development expenses will increase as we continue to enhance and expand the services and products we offer. Marketing and sales We rely on the extensive distribution channels of our wireless carrier customers to expand the adoption of our LBS. In addition, we sell our LBS to end users through mobile phone application stores, such as Apples App Store and Googles Google Play. We focus the majority of our marketing efforts on supporting our wireless carrier customers marketing programs to promote our LBS to their subscribers through either our wireless carrier customers white label or our own branded version of our solution. This strategy enables us to leverage the marketing resources of our wireless carrier customers and reduce our sales and marketing costs. Marketing . Our wireless carrier customers are our primary source of marketing to end users. They employ a variety of marketing programs to sell our LBS, including promotion in retail stores and through their sales forces, and through various media and Internet advertising. We also implement selected public relations activities to support the launch of our LBS on new devices or the release of new LBS. In addition, we focus certain marketing efforts for our services on distribution in the iPhone and Android application marketplaces. These efforts are focused on building our direct relationship with consumers and the Scout brand specifically. We also partner with developers of location based websites and applications to provide personalized navigation for their products through our Scout for Apps developer service. 11 Table of Contents We typically provide original marketing and promotion materials, as well as electronic sales tools, to the wireless carrier customers with which we work closely to drive the adoption of our LBS. We also provide a limited number of demonstration subscriptions for use by our wireless carrier customers sales and marketing personnel. Our wireless carrier customers generally determine the distribution channels to be used and ensure that the marketing materials are accessible to their direct and indirect sales forces, which may include third party distribution vendors. We often assist our wireless carrier customers with trade shows and other events at their request. We also provide our wireless carrier customers with access to application demonstrations and self-guided training. Sales . Our wireless carrier customers are primarily responsible for obtaining our end users through their sales and marketing efforts to their existing and potential subscribers. For example, mobile phones enabled with our LBS are sold in AT&Ts direct channels, such as retail stores, and through the AT&T website and indirect channels, such as national retail partners and indirect dealers. In connection with sales efforts directed at automobile manufacturers, we have a sales team that focuses on targeted customers and responds to requests for proposal and related sales opportunities. As of June 30, 2012, we had a sales team consisting of 24 employees that focus on selling our MRM products and services to enterprise customers in conjunction with certain of our wireless carrier customers. In connection with sales efforts directed primarily at enterprises, we work closely with representatives of our wireless carrier customers, often participating in sales calls and other aspects of the selling process. With regard to our mobile advertising business, we are highly engaged in direct sales efforts to expand the reach of our mobile drive-to advertising solutions. As of June 30, 2012, our advertising sales team included five employees focused on growing direct relationships with large agencies and brands. Customers We derive revenue from wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs, advertising and end users. We primarily derive our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our LBS to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or voice services and from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles incorporate our navigation services. We currently provide our LBS to customers in North America, Asia, Europe and South America. We generate revenue from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software for on-board and connected auto based navigation solutions. We typically enter into long term supply arrangements with our auto customers to provide our solutions across multiple car models in multiple regions around the world. We provide advertising services to advertisers by delivering contextual search and banner advertisements to consumers within our applications with internally developed advertising products, such as search based drive-to ads and mobile billboards. We typically enter into direct relationships with the advertisers to provide this advertising for which it is paid either on a cost per action basis or impressions served and also utilize advertising networks. End users may also subscribe to our LBS services from our application stores, but these customers represent a small minority of our end users. As of June 30, 2012, we had entered into agreements with 13 wireless carriers to provide our LBS in 30 countries. Our revenue from the United States comprised 97%, 96% and 94% of our total revenue for fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. We are substantially dependent on Sprint, AT&T and Ford for our revenue. For fiscal 2010, 2011 and fiscal 2012, Sprint represented 55%, 42% and 37% of our revenue, respectively, and AT&T represented 34%, 37% and 36% of our revenue, respectively. In addition, in fiscal 2012, Ford represented 12% of our revenue. We expect Sprint, AT&T and Ford to represent a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. 12 Table of Contents Effective July 1, 2012, we amended our agreement with Sprint to, among other things, extend the expiration of our agreement from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2015. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with Sprint, we are Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications until December 31, 2015 and Sprint is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to feature our navigation services more prominently than other navigation applications on handsets and to preload certain of our products on handsets. Sprint is entitled to expand the number of bundles in which our navigation services are offered. For bundled navigation services, Sprint will pay us a fixed annual fee through June 30, 2013, regardless of the number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds). In connection with our amended agreement with Sprint, we and Sprint have agreed to transition Sprint Navigation branded services to Telenav branded navigation services. Other than its provisions related to the fixed fee arrangement for bundled navigation services, our agreement with Sprint will automatically renew on January 1, 2016 for successive 12-month periods unless either party provides notice of termination at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. Our agreement with Sprint also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. Additionally, Sprint may terminate the agreement if we effect a change in control transaction or become insolvent. As amended in January 2011, our agreement with AT&T expires in March 2013 and during the term of our agreement, we are the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. The agreement with AT&T will automatically renew at the end of the initial term for successive one year periods unless either party provides notice of termination at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. Our agreement with AT&T also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. We are also required to give AT&T preferred pricing during the term of our agreement. We provide automotive-grade GPS navigation software to Ford pursuant to an agreement dated October 12, 2009. We are the preferred provider for GPS on-board navigation integrated with Fords second-generation SYNC platform during the term of the agreement, which expires on May 31, 2014, but which may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term and the other party agrees to such renewal. Our agreement with Ford also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. Under our agreements with Sprint, AT&T and Ford, we have obligations to indemnify each of them against, among other things, losses arising out of or in connection with any claim that our technology or services infringe third party proprietary or intellectual property rights. Our agreements with Sprint, AT&T and Ford may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or service infringed upon a third partys rights. We employ administrative, physical and technical safeguards to prevent unauthorized collection, access, use and disclosure of our end users private data and to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We do not use any end user data for direct marketing or promotions without the consent of the user and do not store any user location information that is specifically identifiable with an end user except to deliver and support our services. We are also required to comply with our wireless carrier customers stringent privacy policies and standards. Intellectual property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services and products are available. 13 Table of Contents We seek to patent key concepts, components, protocols, processes and other inventions. As of July 31, 2012, we held 11 U.S. patents and 29 foreign patents expiring between April 11, 2020 and February 14, 2031, and have 115 U.S. and 67 foreign patent applications pending. Of the pending 115 U.S. patent applications, 102 are nonprovisional patent applications, which are patent applications that are examined on their merits by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and 13 are provisional patent applications, which are filed for purposes of establishing priority but cannot result in an issued U.S. patent unless they are first converted to nonprovisional patents. These patents and patent applications may relate to features and functions of our LBS and the technology platform we use to provide them. We have filed, and will continue to file, patent applications in the United States and other countries where there exists a strategic technological or business reason to do so. Any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. As of July 31, 2012, we owned the Telenav, Telenav Track, Sipity, ONMYWAY, and Whereboutz trademarks, registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also own the Telenav and design logo registered trademark in the United Kingdom and European Union. We have several unregistered trademarks, including the names Evie, MyTies, MyMileage, RoadAssist, Scout, Smart Planner, Telenav Asset Tracker, Telenav Connected Service, Telenav GPS Fleet, Telenav GPS Navigator, Telenav Navigator, Telenav Scout, Telenav Shotgun, Telenav Track LITE, Telenav Track Premium, Telenav Vehicle Manager, and Telenav Vehicle Tracker, and the logos for Telenav and Scout. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive with ours or that infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on the success of our legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We also enter into various types of licensing agreements to obtain access to technology or data that end users utilize in connection with our LBS. Our contracts with certain licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are payable regardless of the ultimate volume of revenue derived from the number of paying end users. Our most important agreements are with the providers of maps pursuant to which we generally pay a monthly fee per end user, a per transaction fee or a revenue sharing percentage for data provided based in each case upon a multi-tiered fee structure. We obtain map data pursuant to an agreement with TomTom North America, Inc., or TomTom, dated July 1, 2009, as amended. Our agreement with TomTom has an initial term of five years (except for off-board applications sold on Apples App Store and selected vehicle navigation system applications) and will automatically renew for each supported application for successive one year periods thereafter, unless either party provides written notice of termination at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the then-current term for each supported application. In September 2010, we amended our agreement with TomTom to change the fee structure for map and POI data we use to provide our services for Sprints bundled offerings. Pursuant to the amended agreement, we pay TomTom a percentage of fees we collect from Sprint for basic navigation services and our gross advertising revenue and a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium navigation services. We also pay TomTom certain guaranteed minimum payments for such services. The license period for navigation services provided for Sprints bundled offerings was to expire on the earlier of December 31, 2012 or termination of our agreement with Sprint with respect to the those bundled services. Effective July 1, 2012, we amended our TomTom agreement, to (a) extend the license period for navigation services provided for Sprints bundled offering to June 30, 2013; (b) license TomTom map data for our automotive navigation product, Scout for Cars; and (c) license TomTom map data for our HTML5, browser-based, voice-guided turn by turn GPS navigation service for mobile phones, Scout for Apps. We also obtain map data from Navigation Technologies Corporation, a Nokia company, or NAVTEQ, pursuant to an agreement dated December 1, 2002. Our agreement with NAVTEQ had an initial term of one year and since has been extended until January 31, 2013. On August 30, 2012 NAVTEQ North America LLC, or 14 Table of Contents NAVTEQ, filed a complaint against us in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois (Case No. 2012L009862), alleging breach of the Data License Agreement, unjust enrichment and quantum meruit , and fraud. NAVTEQ is seeking actual and punitive damages should judgment be found in its favor. Due to the preliminary status of the lawsuit and uncertainties related to litigation, we are unable to evaluate the likelihood of either a favorable or unfavorable outcome. We cannot currently estimate a range of possible losses, if any, we may experience in connection with this case. Accordingly, we are unable at this time to estimate the effects of this complaint on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our agreements with TomTom and NAVTEQ also allow a party to terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. In addition, we obtain other data such as weather updates, gas prices, POI and traffic information from additional providers. Competition The market for development, distribution and sale of LBS is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Competitors are offering LBS navigation services that have similar functionality to ours for free. For example, Google offers free voice-guided turn by turn navigation as part of its release of Google Maps Navigation for mobile devices based on the Android 1.6 and higher operating system platform , and Nokia provides a download for its latest version of Nokia Maps on its smartphones which also provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation functions. Microsoft also provides a free voice-guided turn by turn navigation solution on its Windows Mobile and Windows Phone operating systems. Apple has recently announced its intention to offer maps and voice-guided turn by turn directions as part of its next operating system release (iOS6). Competition from these free offerings may reduce our revenue and harm our business. If our wireless carrier customers can offer these LBS to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our subscription fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful. We compete in the LBS market and our primary competitors include providers of LBS such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nokia, TeleCommunication Systems, or TCS, through its acquisition of Networks in Motion, or NIM, Intel Corporation, or Intel, through its acquisition of Telmap Ltd., or Telmap, and TomTom; PND providers such as Garmin Ltd., or Garmin, and TomTom; integrated navigation mobile phone providers such as Garmin and Nokia; and providers of Internet and mobile based maps and directions such as AOL Corporation, or AOL, Apple, Mapquest, Inc., or Mapquest, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!, Inc., or Yahoo, Yelp Inc., or Yelp, Foursquare Labs, Inc., or Foursquare, Waze Inc., or Waze and Fullpower Technologies, Inc. (MotionX), or Fullpower. We compete in the automotive navigation market with established automobile manufacturers and OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as Robert Bosch GmbH, or Bosch, Garmin, TomTom and NNG LLC, or Nav N Go, as well as other competitors such as Google, Microsoft and TCS. Competition in our market is based primarily on product performance including features, functions, reliability, flexibility, scalability and interoperability; wireless carrier relationships; technological expertise, capabilities and innovation; price of services and products and total cost of ownership; brand recognition; and size and financial stability of operations. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors based upon the performance, reliability and breadth of our services and products and our technical experience. Some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, including with respect to the following: significantly greater revenue and financial resources; 15 Table of Contents stronger brand and consumer recognition in a particular market segment, geographic region or worldwide; the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier, automotive and handset manufacturer relationships; more financial flexibility and experience to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Employees As of August 31, 2012, we employed 901 people, including 621 in research and development, 154 in sales and marketing, 58 in customer support and data center operations and 68 in a general and administrative capacity. As of that date, we had 393 employees in the United States, 502 in China, 3 in the United Kingdom and 3 in Brazil. We also engage a number of temporary employees and consultants. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is a party to a collective bargaining agreement. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of June 30, 2012) and positions of our executive officers: Name Age Position Dr. HP Jin 48 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Michael Strambi 50 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Marc Aronson 55 Senior Vice President, Engineering Salman Dhanani 39 Vice President, Growth Strategy and Partnerships Loren Hillberg 54 General Counsel and Secretary Dariusz Paczuski 46 Vice President, Marketing, Products and Monetization Hassan Wahla 40 Vice President, Business Development and Carrier Sales Dr. HP Jin is a cofounder of our company and has served as our president and a member of our board of directors since October 1999. Dr. Jin has also served as our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors from October 1999 to May 2001 and since December 2001. Prior to Telenav, Dr. Jin served as a senior strategy consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. Prior to that time, Dr. Jin was a business strategy and management consultant at McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm. Dr. Jin was also previously a technical director at Loral Integrated Navigation Communication Satellite Systems, or LINCSS, a division of Loral Space & Communications, Inc., a GPS service and engineering company. Dr. Jin holds a B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Harbin Institute of Technology in China and a Ph.D. in Guidance, Navigation and Control, with a Ph.D. minor in Electrical Engineering, from Stanford University. Michael Strambi has served as our chief financial officer and treasurer since June 2012. From November 2009 to June 2012, Mr. Strambi served as our vice president of finance. From December 2008 to August 2009, 16 Table of Contents Mr. Strambi served as vice president and chief accounting officer of Silver Spring Networks, Inc., a provider of smart grid services. From February 2008 to December 2008, Mr. Strambi served as chief financial officer of Metacafe, Inc., a provider of online video services. From February 2006 to February 2008, Mr. Strambi served as vice president of finance of MobiTV, Inc., a provider of mobile media solutions. From 2002 to 2006, Mr. Strambi served in various positions, the most recent of which was vice president, controller and treasurer, with Macromedia, Inc., a provider of web publishing products and solutions that was acquired by Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Strambi holds a B.S. in business administration with a concentration in accounting from California State University, Sacramento and an M.B.A. in finance from the University of Southern California. Marc Aronson has served as our senior vice president, engineering since October 2011. From September 2009 to October 2011, Mr. Aronson was Senior Vice President, Engineering, of CA Technologies, a global software company. From June 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Aronson was Senior Vice President, Engineering, of Oracle Corporation, a global software company. Prior to that time, Mr. Aronson held positions at Portal Software, Inc., a provider of billing and revenue management solutions, and Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Aronson holds a B.S. in Computer Science and Applied Math and an M.S. in Computer Science from the State University of New York at Albany. Salman Dhanani is a cofounder of our company and has served as our vice president, growth strategy and partnerships since July 2012. Mr. Dhanani served as our vice president, products from August 2010 to July 2012 and as our vice president, products and marketing from August 2009 to August 2010. Mr. Dhanani served as our executive director of marketing from March 2009 to July 2009 and as our senior director of marketing from November 1999 to February 2009. From January 1999 to November 1999, Mr. Dhanani served as a consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. From July 1996 to December 1998, Mr. Dhanani served as an application engineer at Schlumberger Ltd., a technology consulting services company. Mr. Dhanani holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington. Loren Hillberg has served as our general counsel and secretary since April 2009. From September 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Hillberg served as vice president and general counsel at Force10 Networks, a privately held communications and networks company. From April 2005 to May 2007, Mr. Hillberg held various management positions, including executive vice president and general counsel at Macrovision Corporation (now Rovi Corporation), a publicly traded digital entertainment company. From May 1998 to March 2005, Mr. Hillberg served as senior vice president and general counsel at Macromedia, Inc., a provider of web publishing products and solutions that was acquired by Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Hillberg holds a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University and a J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of Law. Dariusz Paczuski has served as our vice president, marketing, products and monetization since July 2012. Mr. Paczuski served as our vice president, marketing from July 2010 to July 2012. From December 2007 to July 2010, Mr. Paczuski held various positions, including senior director of Bing Carrier Strategy and senior director of Tellme Consumer Services, at Microsoft Corporation, a publicly traded software company. From 2002 to 2007, Mr. Paczuski held various positions, including vice president, search products and vice president, product marketing, at AOL Inc., a publicly traded online content company. Prior to that time, Mr. Paczuski held positions at Netscape Communications Corporation, an internet browser company, and General Electric Company, a publicly traded multinational company. Mr. Paczuski holds a B.S. in Marketing from California State University, Long Beach. Hassan Wahla was promoted to vice president, business development and carrier sales, in August 2009 and served as our executive director of business development from May 2005 to August 2009. From April 2003 to May 2005, Mr. Wahla served as a senior product manager at Nextel Communications, a wireless communications company that merged with Sprint. From February 2002 to April 2003, Mr. Wahla served as vice president of business development of Wireless Multimedia Solutions, a privately held wireless software platform company. From September 1999 to February 2002, Mr. Wahla served as director of business development at MicroStrategy, Inc., a business intelligence software company. Prior to that time, Mr. Wahla served as a senior consultant at Maritime Power, a maritime equipment company. Mr. Wahla holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from Virginia Tech, an M.S. in Management from Stevens Institute of Technology and a Masters of International Affairs from Columbia University. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before you decide whether to purchase any of our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk related to our business We are substantially dependent on two wireless carrier customers for a large portion of our revenue and if these wireless carrier customers were to change or terminate our relationships with them or to offer LBS directly or from other vendors, our revenue and net income would be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on two wireless carrier customers for a large portion of our revenue. In fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, Sprint represented 55%, 42% and 37% of our revenue, respectively. Effective July 1, 2012, we amended our agreement with Sprint to, among other things, extend the term of our agreement from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2015. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with Sprint, we are Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications until December 31, 2015 and Sprint is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to feature our navigation services more prominently than other navigation applications on handsets and to preload certain of our products on handsets. Sprint is entitled to expand the number of bundles in which our navigation services are offered. For bundled navigation services, Sprint will pay us a fixed annual fee through June 30, 2013 regardless of the number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds). Sprint is not obligated to continue to bundle our navigation services after June 30, 2013 and we cannot assure you that it will continue to do so, and even if Sprint does continue to bundle we may not receive meaningful compensation for such distribution of our services. This amendment will result in a significant reduction in revenue related to bundled navigation solutions from Sprint beginning July 1, 2012 compared to revenue levels recognized prior to the amendment. In connection with our amended agreement with Sprint, we and Sprint have agreed to transition Sprint Navigation branded services to Scout branded navigation services. The branding transition may not increase end user recognition of our brand and may result in confusion that results in reduced or more limited adoption of our services by Sprints subscribers. In the event that Sprint does not elect to continue to bundle our navigation services after June 30, 2013 and pay us a fee for such bundling, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and we would have to develop other sources of revenue. Sprint may elect to eliminate our navigation services from its Simply Everything plans and we would no longer receive a fee for the inclusion of our services in that bundle. Although we have negotiated revenue sharing for advertising we provide to Sprint customers and premium subscription fees, in the event that we were no longer compensated by Sprint for the inclusion of our LBS in Sprints bundled service offerings, we believe that our revenue would decline substantially and our other sources of revenue from Sprint would not offset the shortfall in the near term. If Sprint reduces its expenditures for marketing our LBS, changes its Simply Everything plans to eliminate our services, prices our LBS at a level that makes them less attractive or offers and promotes competing LBS, in lieu of, or to a greater degree than our LBS, our revenue would be materially reduced and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, AT&T represented 34%, 37% and 36% of our total revenue, respectively. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. Our agreement with AT&T expires in March 2013 and during the term of our agreement, we are the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. If AT&T were to terminate its agreement with us or fail to renew or renegotiate the agreement on favorable terms when it expires, we would lose a substantial portion of our revenue and our business operating results and financial 18 Table of Contents condition could be harmed. Furthermore, our failure to otherwise maintain our relationship with AT&T would substantially harm our business. We have a growing revenue stream from the automotive navigation market but we cannot be confident that this revenue will continue to grow. Our first automobile navigation products were introduced in fiscal 2009, and a second generation of products were introduced in fiscal 2010 in a limited number of vehicles and just recently reached a broader model portfolio at a single automobile manufacturer, Ford. Although Ford represented approximately 12% of our revenue in fiscal 2012, a substantial portion of that revenue was nonrecurring and related to Fords transition to a different map provider. We may not successfully increase our revenue from Ford in the short-term and other automobile manufacturers or OEMs, such as Delphi, in the long term. If we fail to do so, our revenue may decline. Our current relationships with Ford and Delphi provide for a different revenue model than has historically been associated with our wireless carrier business, and for on-board automotive navigation, we recognize revenue as the related customized software is delivered to and accepted by our customers. In addition we recognize royalties earned from our on-board solutions generally as the software is reproduced and installed in vehicles. We have little experience managing, supporting and retaining automobile manufacturers and OEMs as customers and if we are not able to maintain Ford and Delphi as customers our revenue will decline. Our contract with Ford expires in May 2014, but may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term and the other party agrees to such renewal. Our agreement with Ford also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. In the event that Ford does not elect to renew our contract after May 2014, our revenue may decline. Our automotive navigation products are an important part of our effort to expand outside of mobile device navigation to other platforms and we may not be successful in our efforts to attract and retain automobile manufacturers and OEMs, implement profitable and high quality products or achieve end customer acceptance of our services and fee model. In fiscal 2009, we began offering our first off-board connected automotive navigation products and prior to that time, we had limited experience in the automotive navigation market. In fiscal 2010, we began offering our first on-board automotive navigation products. Our on-board solutions may not satisfy automotive manufacturers or end customers expectations for those solutions. If automobile manufacturers and OEMs do not believe that our services meet their customers needs, our products and services may not be designed in to future model year vehicles. The design and sales cycle for on-board or off-board automotive navigation products is substantially longer than those associated with our LBS services to customers of wireless carriers. As a result, we may not be able to achieve significant revenue from the automotive navigation business in a short period of time, or at all. As we have limited experience in the automotive navigation market, we also may not price our solutions in such a way that is profitable for us and enables us to recoup the development expenses we incurred to provide such solutions in the time we expect or at all. Development schedules for automotive navigation products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely delivery of these products to our customers. To the extent that we charge service fees beyond an initial fee at the time the vehicle is purchased, we may not be successful in gaining traction with customers to provide services and charge ongoing fees outside of the traditional on-board navigation service model. Our map, POI and other content costs for our automobile navigation solutions are higher than those we have historically paid for our mobile phone-based navigation services. If we are unable to improve our margins, we may not be able to operate our automobile navigation 19 Table of Contents business profitably. If we fail to achieve revenue growth in any of our automotive navigation solutions (whether on-board, off-board or other), we may be unable to achieve the benefits of revenue diversification. We recently introduced Scout, a service that end users can access for navigation and planning with their mobile phones, computers, and autos. We have not previously offered a planning service or a service that spans different platforms. We cannot assure you that automobile manufacturers and end users will accept our Scout service or, even if they do, that end users will adopt and use this service, which encompasses services different than our historical strength in navigation, or that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from Scout to offset its costs. If we fail to develop innovative products that automobile manufacturers and end users adopt, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may be unable to enter into agreements to provide automobile navigation products if we do not offer navigation products that serve geographies throughout the world or automobile manufacturers and OEMs are uncomfortable with our ability to support markets outside of the United States. Our ability to build demand for our automobile navigation products is also dependent upon our ability to provide the products in a cost effective manner, which may require us to renegotiate map and POI content relationships to address the specific demands of on-board navigation applications. We introduced freemium navigation to compete with free offerings and we may not be successful with these new products or convert free users to paid users. We provide freemium personal navigation offerings on the Apple App Store and through other marketplaces and our wireless carrier partners. Freemium offerings are free basic navigation services that are monetized through paid upgrades to premium products, as well as through advertising. We may not achieve substantial end user acceptance of these products, and even if end users download and use the freemium products, we may not be successful in converting those free users into paid users. In addition, certain of our paying end users have converted to our freemium offerings. We have limited experience in marketing our products and services directly to end users or generating advertising revenue. We may not be successful in gaining visibility among end users without incurring significant expenses to market our products and services to those users. In addition, we do not have experience in converting users of free applications to paid users or in generating revenue from full featured products solely through advertising revenue. If we are unable to achieve high visibility among end users on a cost effective basis or fail to convince those end users to convert to paid products and revenue producing services, we may be unable to sustain our revenue and profitability and we may incur losses in the future. We may not successfully generate advertising revenue from our LBS if we are unable to attract and retain advertisers. Although we began providing advertising to some of our end users in 2010, to date, we have not generated material revenue from advertising. In order to do so, we need to identify and attract a sufficient number of advertisers for the available ad placements in our LBS to create competition for those placements. To date, we have had to demonstrate to prospective advertisers the benefits of placing advertisements in driving routes or with POI searches as there is not a widely accepted belief that end user impressions or unique drive to cost per action advertising in a navigation setting are more likely to result in a purchase. We do not have substantial experience in selling advertising and supporting advertisers and may not be able to develop these capabilities successfully. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining a critical mass of advertisers and ad placements and may not be successful in demonstrating the value of advertising in our LBS. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to generate a material level of revenue from advertising to offset the costs of providing free navigation. 20 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market, including competitors that offer their services for free, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain wireless carrier customers and end users. The market for development, distribution and sale of LBS is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Competitors may offer LBS that have at least equivalent functionality to ours for free. For example, Google offers free voice-guided turn by turn navigation as part of its Google Maps product for mobile devices based on the Android 1.6 and higher operating system platform and Nokia, provides a download for its latest version of Nokia Maps on its smartphones which also provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation functions. Microsoft also provides a free voice-guided turn by turn navigation solution on its Windows Mobile and Windows Phone operating systems. Apple has recently announced its intention to offer maps and voice-guided turn by turn directions as part of its next operating system release (iOS6), which effectively means these capabilities will be free to consumers who have this update on their handsets. Competition from these free offerings may reduce our revenue and harm our business. If our wireless carrier customers can offer these LBS to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful. Our primary competitors include providers of LBS such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nokia, TCS, Intel, and TomTom; PND providers such as Garmin and TomTom; providers of Internet and mobile based maps and directions such as AOL, Apple, Mapquest, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!; and wireless carriers and communication solutions providers developing their own LBS. In the automotive navigation market, we compete with established automotive OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as Bosch, Garmin, TomTom and Nav N Go, as well as other competitors such as Google, Microsoft and TCS. Some of our competitors and our potential competitors advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: the provision of their services at no or low cost to consumers; significantly greater revenue and financial resources; stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and nonmobile products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier, automotive and handset manufacturer relationships; greater resources to make and integrate acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents The success of our automotive navigation products may be affected by overall demand for new vehicles. Our ability to succeed long term in the automotive industry depends on our ability to expand the number of models offered with our navigation solution with our current automobile manufacturers. We are also dependent upon our ability to attract new automobile manufacturers and OEMs. For automobile manufacturers with whom we have established relationships, such as Ford, our success depends on continued production and sale of new vehicles with, and adoption by, end users of our products offered by such automobile manufacturers, when our product are not standard features. As we move forward, our existing automobile manufacturers and OEMs may not include our solutions in future year vehicles or territories, which would negatively affect our revenue from these products. Production and sale of new vehicles are subject to delay from forces outside of our control, such as natural disasters, parts shortages and work stoppages, as well as general economic conditions. Our wireless carrier customers may change the pricing and other terms by which they offer our LBS, which could result in increased end user turnover, lower revenue and adverse effects on our business. Certain of our wireless carrier customers sell unlimited data service plans, which include our LBS. As a result, end users do not have to pay a separate monthly fee to use our services. If our wireless carrier customers were to eliminate our services from their unlimited data service plans, we could lose end users as they would be required to pay a separate monthly fee to continue to use our services. In addition, we could be required to change our fee structure to retain end users, which could negatively affect our gross margins. For example, in July 2012, we entered into an amendment with Sprint that continued our flat fee structure across all users (up to certain thresholds) per year, which decreased our revenue and did not provide for a payment to us for that bundled product after June 30, 2013. Sprint is not obligated to continue to bundle our navigation services after June 30, 2013 and we cannot assure you that it will continue to do so, and even if it does we do not anticipate that we will receive meaningful compensation for such distribution of our services. Our wireless carrier customers may also seek to reduce the monthly fees per subscriber that they pay us if their subscribers do not use our services as often as the wireless carriers expect or for any other reason in order to reduce their costs. Our wireless carrier customers may also decide to raise prices, impose usage caps or discontinue unlimited data service plans, which could cause our end users who receive our services through those plans to move to a less expensive plan that does not include our services or terminate their relationship with the wireless carrier. If imposed, these pricing changes or usage restrictions could make our LBS less attractive and could result in current end users abandoning our LBS. If end user turnover increased, the number of our end users and our revenue would decrease and our business would be harmed. We are also required to give AT&T certain most favored customer pricing on specified products and in certain markets. In certain circumstances this may require us to reduce the price per end user under the AT&T contract, which may adversely impact our revenue. We are substantially dependent on our wireless carrier customers to market and distribute our LBS to end users and our business may be harmed if our wireless carrier customers elect not to offer our services broadly. We rely on our wireless carrier customers to introduce, market and promote our LBS to end users. Only one of our wireless carrier customers is contractually obligated to continue to do so. If wireless carrier customers do not introduce, market and promote mobile phones that are GPS enabled and on which our client software is preloaded and do not actively market our LBS, our LBS will not achieve broader acceptance and our revenue may not grow as fast as anticipated, or may decline. Wireless carriers, including those with which we have existing relationships, may decide not to offer our services and may enter into preferred relationships with one or more of our competitors. While our LBS may still be available to customers of those wireless carriers as downloads from application stores, sales of our LBS would likely be much more limited than if our LBS were preloaded as a white label service actively marketed by the carrier or were included as part of a bundle of services. Our inability to offer our LBS through a white label offering or as part of a bundle on popular mobile phones would harm our operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models, particularly free to premium options, in the LBS market may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution and sale of LBS are evolving rapidly. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology and new products may make it more difficult for us to sell our LBS, and could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although historically wireless carriers controlled provisioning and access to the applications that could be used on mobile phones connected to their networks, in recent years consumers have been able to download and provision applications from individual provider websites and to select from a menu of applications through the Apple App Store, Google Play, the Blackberry App World and other application aggregators. In these marketplaces there is a high premium on being noticed. In order to achieve high market rankings many vendors, including ourselves, provide free versions of products that then provide opportunities for end users to upgrade to premium versions for a charge. This distribution model may not be sustainable if the cost of providing free services is greater than the revenue opportunity associated with the premium services and any related revenue opportunity for free services, such as advertising. In addition, other new entrants may seek to have their products preloaded on mobile devices by OEMs or offered by OEMs directly. Increased competition from providers of LBS which do not rely on a wireless carrier may result in fewer wireless carrier subscribers electing to purchase their wireless carriers branded LBS, which could harm our business and revenue. In addition, these LBS may be offered for free or on a one-time fee basis, which could force us to reduce monthly subscription fees, migrate to a one-time fee model or offer free versions of our products that allow for upgrades to more premium versions for a fee to remain competitive. We may also lose end users or face erosion in revenue if these competitors deliver their products without charge to the consumer by generating revenue from advertising or as part of other applications or services. Finally, we may not be successful at generating revenue from premium navigation services if end users believe that free services are comparable or adequate. Our success depends on significantly increasing the number of end users for our products through distribution with our wireless carrier customers and through application stores. Our mobile LBS revenue is derived primarily from subscription fees that we receive from our wireless carrier customers for end users who subscribe to our services on a standalone basis or in a bundle with other services. While the number of end users increased from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012, we experienced a decline in the number of paying end users during fiscal 2012. Our future success depends on achieving widespread deployment of our LBS through wireless carrier customers and application stores. In light of recent trends away from paid navigation and toward freemium offerings, we will be required to successfully convert an increasing number of our subscribers who are not paying for our services to our premium paid offerings and to generate revenue by selling advertising that those subscribers see in our free and paid products. We do not have significant experience in sourcing and selling mobile advertising and may not be successful in doing so. Our ability to generate revenue from our LBS will depend on broad distribution and the quality of those services and subscriber demand for those services, which may vary by market. Attempts to generate revenue from paid premium services or advertising may not be successful and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents If our wireless carrier customers lose net subscribers, such as the losses Sprint previously experienced, or if their subscribers do not continue to purchase service plans that include our LBS and we are unable to develop relationships with other significant wireless carriers, we may lose end users and our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Wireless carriers relationships with subscribers have been threatened by several factors, including strong competition, lack of subscriber loyalty and the development of direct relationships between mobile phone manufacturers and mobile phone operating system providers and consumers. A loss of net subscribers by one or more of our wireless carrier customers could harm our business as we rely on our wireless carrier customers to market our products. For example, one of our key wireless carrier customers, Sprint, has experienced losses in net subscribers in the past. Although Sprint has recently experienced gains in net subscribers, if these gains in subscribers are not sustained or if Sprint subscribers do not continue to purchase service plans that include our LBS, we may also lose end users and experience a decline in revenue to the extent we are unable to develop similar relationships with other significant wireless carriers which include our services in attractive bundled or other LBS offerings that generate comparable revenue. A significant decrease in the number of our end users will adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Our ability to increase or maintain our end user base and revenue will be impaired if mobile phone manufacturers do not allow us to customize our services for their new devices. We typically deliver our services through client software that has been customized to work with a given mobile phones operating system, features and form factors. Wireless carrier customers often insist that mobile phone manufacturers permit us to customize our client software for their devices in order to provide the end user with a positive experience. Wireless carriers or mobile phone manufacturers may enter into agreements with other providers of LBS for new or popular mobile phones. For this reason or others, some mobile phone manufacturers may refuse to permit us to access preproduction models of their mobile phones or the mobile phone manufacturers may offer a competing service. If mobile phone manufacturers do not permit us to customize our client software and preload it on their devices, we may have difficulty attracting end users because of poor user experiences or an inconvenient provisioning process. If we are unable to provide seamless provisioning or end users cancel their subscriptions to our services because they have poor experiences, our revenue may be harmed. Our operating income and net income could decline as a percentage of revenue, or we may incur losses, as we make further expenditures to enhance and expand our operations in order to support growth and diversification of our business. As a percentage of revenue, our operating income was 40%, 33% and 21% and our net income was 24%, 20% and 15% in fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Since June 30, 2008, we have made significant investments in new operating and information systems and additional data centers, hired substantial numbers of new research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative personnel and expanded our operations outside the United States. Efforts to develop new services and products and attract new customers require investments in anticipation of longer term revenue. For example, the design cycle for automotive navigation products and services is 18 months to two years and in order to win designs and achieve revenue from this growth area, we have to make investments two to four years before we anticipate receiving revenue, if any. We intend to make additional investments in systems and continue to expand our operations to support diversification of our business. As a result of these factors, we believe our operating income and net income may decline significantly as a percentage of revenue at least through fiscal 2013 and we may incur losses. Furthermore, our investments and expenditures may not result in the growth that we anticipate. We also will not be able to reduce our expenditures on a timely basis, if at all, if we do not generate anticipated revenue. 24 Table of Contents We are substantially dependent on revenue from our GPS Navigator service and, if we fail to generate significant revenue from other services, our operating results may be harmed if revenue from GPS Navigator declines. Although revenue in absolute dollars from sources other than GPS Navigator rose in all periods presented, revenue from our GPS Navigator service declined from 94% of our revenue in fiscal 2010 to 88% and 79% of our revenue in fiscal 2011 and 2012, respectively. Although some of our other sources of revenue, such as automotive navigation and advertising are growing, in the near term we anticipate that GPS Navigator will continue to represent the majority of our revenue. If we were unable to be the exclusive provider of white label navigation services to our major wireless carrier customers or the number of end users for GPS Navigator were to decline, our revenue would be substantially harmed. We have experienced a reduction of revenue from GPS Navigator, partially as a result of increased competition from free and other low cost offerings and from the renegotiation of agreements with our wireless carrier customers. In addition, certain of our wireless carriers have experienced a reduction in the number of navigation subscribers, who have moved to freemium or free offerings. We may be unable to increase our revenue from our enterprise LBS, automotive navigation, mobile advertising and premium LBS. If we were unable to offset declining revenue from GPS Navigator by increasing the amount of revenue that our other services and products represent, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We rely on our customers for timely and accurate subscriber and vehicle sales information. A failure or disruption in the provisioning of this data to us would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We rely on our wireless carrier customers to bill subscribers and collect monthly fees for our LBS, either directly or through third party service providers. In addition, we rely on our automotive and OEM customers to provide us with reports on the number of vehicles they sell with our on-board navigation services included. If our customers or their third party service providers provide us with inaccurate data or experience errors or outages in their own billing and provisioning systems when performing these services, our revenue may be less than anticipated or may be subject to adjustment with the customer. In the past, we have experienced errors in wireless carrier reporting. If we are unable to identify and resolve discrepancies in a timely manner, our revenue may vary more than anticipated from period to period and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on a proprietary provisioning and reporting system to track end user activation, deactivation and usage data and any material failures in this system could harm our revenue, affect our costs and impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Our provisioning and reporting system that authenticates end users and tracks the number of end users and their use of our services is a proprietary and customized system that we developed internally. Although we believe that the flexibility of this service to integrate tightly with wireless carriers reporting and provisioning systems gives us a competitive advantage, we might lose revenue and the ability to manage our business effectively if the system were to experience material failures or be unable to scale as our business grows. In addition, we may not be able to report our financial results on a timely basis if our customers question the accuracy of our records or we experience significant discrepancies between the data generated by our provisioning and reporting systems and data generated by their systems, or if our systems fail or we are unable to report timely and accurate information to our third party data providers. The inability to timely report our financial results would impair the quality of our financial reporting and could result in the delisting of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Our profitability may continue to decline or we may incur losses as we expand into other service and product areas and we may be unable to recoup our investments. We receive a majority of our revenue from monthly subscription fees paid by wireless carrier customers who bill their subscribers for our services on a standalone or bundled basis. As we expanded our LBS offerings to enable end users to purchase our services from application stores, we modified our revenue model to include an annual fee for services, which has resulted in, and we anticipate will continue to result in, lower gross and net profit margins. In addition, as we expand into the automotive navigation market, we expect that the net profit margins will continue to be lower than our historical net profit margins. As we expand into mobile advertising and premium LBS or other markets for LBS, we may be required to adopt new pricing models and may incur cost of revenue substantially different than that which we have experienced historically due in part to third party content costs. These different pricing models and increased costs of revenue may result in declines in our gross margins and profitability, and we may incur losses. We have limited experience in selling our services and products outside of the wireless carrier application platform and automotive navigation market. As we expand into new service and product areas, and as the wireless carrier and auto market rapidly evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively with existing market participants, adjust our business operations to changing market conditions, and may not be able to realize a positive return on the investment we have made in these products or services. If our introduction of a new product or service is not successful or we are not able to achieve the revenue or margins we expect, our operating results may be harmed and we may not recover our product development and marketing expenditures. If our end users increase their usage of our services, our net operating income may decline, or we may incur losses because the fees we receive generally do not depend on usage. With limited exceptions, fees for the use of our services do not vary depending on whether or how often an end user uses our services, and in some cases we offer certain of our services for free. Historically, end users using certain mobile phones or under certain service plans tended to use our services more than other end users. We budget and operate our services by making certain assumptions about usage patterns. If our end users were to further increase their usage of our services substantially or more end users access our services for free through a freemium model, we would incur additional expenses to expand our server capacity, operate additional data centers and pay additional third party content fees. These additional costs would harm our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to enhance our LBS to keep pace with technological and market developments, or develop new LBS in a timely manner or at competitive prices. The market for LBS is emerging and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and achieve product acceptance, our future success depends upon our ability to enhance our current LBS platform and to continue to develop and introduce new LBS offerings and enhanced performance features and functionality on a timely basis at competitive prices. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce or deliver compelling LBS in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technologies or consumer expectations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or could result in our LBS becoming obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering team and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of our LBS platform with evolving industry standards and protocols and competitive network operating environments. Development and delivery schedules for LBS are difficult to predict. We have in the past and may in the future fail to deliver new versions of our services in a timely fashion. If new releases of our LBS are delayed or 26 Table of Contents our services are not preloaded on mobile phones upon their initial commercial release, our wireless carrier customers may curtail their efforts to market and promote our LBS and end users may switch to competing services, any of which would result in a delay or loss of revenue and could harm our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies and related LBS that we develop will be brought to market by our wireless carrier customers as quickly as anticipated or that they will achieve broad acceptance among wireless carriers or consumers. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services and if we were unable to obtain content at reasonable prices, or at all, our gross margins and our ability to provide our services would be harmed. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services, including map data, POI, traffic information, gas prices and weather information. If our suppliers of this data or content were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of LBS or were to discontinue providing such information and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide our services would be harmed. Our gross margins may also be affected if the cost of third party data and content increases substantially. We obtain map data from TomTom and NAVTEQ, which are companies owned by our current and potential competitors TomTom and Nokia, respectively. Accordingly, these third party data and content providers may act in a manner that is not in our best interest. For example, they may cease to offer their map data to us. We may not be able to upgrade our LBS platform to support certain advanced features and functionality without obtaining technology licenses from third parties. Obtaining these licenses may be costly and may delay the introduction of such features and functionality, and these licenses may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. The inability to offer advanced features or functionality, or a delay in our ability to upgrade our LBS platform, may adversely affect consumer demand for our LBS and, consequently, harm our business. We also use our proprietary provisioning and reporting system to record and report royalties we owe to third party providers of content used by end users in connection with our services. Certain of the third party content providers have the right to audit our use of their services and, if we were found to have under- or incorrectly reported usage, we may be required to pay the third party content providers for the actual usage, as well as interest and the cost of the audit. Any significant error in our recording and payment of royalties to our third party content providers could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results and profitability. We may also incur losses as a result of any significant error. Network failures, disruptions or capacity constraints in our third party data center facilities or in our servers could affect the performance of our LBS and harm our reputation and our revenue. Our LBS are provided through a combination of our servers, which we house at third party data centers, the public Internet and the private and wireless networks of our wireless carrier customers. Our operations rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the third party data centers we use. Our hosted data centers are currently located in third party facilities located in the San Francisco Bay Area and the Sacramento, California area. Depending on the growth rate in the number of our end users and their usage of our services, if we do not timely complete and open additional data centers, we may experience capacity issues, which could lead to service failures and disruptions. In addition, if we are unable to secure data center space with appropriate power, cooling and bandwidth capacity, we may be unable to efficiently and effectively scale our business to manage the addition of new wireless carrier customers, increases in the number of our end users or increases in data traffic. Our data centers are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications or computer systems failure, human error, terrorist acts or other events. We have not yet completed a comprehensive business continuity plan and there can be no assurance that the measures implemented by us to date, or measures implemented by us in the future, to manage 27 Table of Contents risks related to network failures or disruptions in our data centers will be adequate, or that the redundancies built into our servers will work as planned in the event of network failures or other disruptions. In particular, if we experienced damage or interruptions to our data centers in the San Francisco Bay Area, or were unable to commence recovery operations in our new data center in Sacramento, California, our ability to provide efficient and uninterrupted operation of our services would be significantly impaired. We could also experience failures of our data centers or interruptions of our services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: damage to or failure of our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; errors in the processing of data by our servers; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; or errors by our employees or third party service providers. Poor performance in or disruptions of our services could harm our reputation, delay market acceptance of our services and subject us to liabilities. Our wireless carrier agreements require us to meet at least 99.9% operational uptime requirements, excluding scheduled maintenance periods, or be subjected to penalties. In addition, if our end user base continues to grow, additional strain will be placed on our technology systems and networks, which may increase the risk of a network disruption. Any outage in a network or system, or other unanticipated problem that leads to an interruption or disruption of our LBS, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If our LBS platform does not scale as anticipated, or we are unable to grow data center capacity as needed, our business will be harmed. Despite frequent testing of the scalability of our LBS platform in a test environment, the ability of our LBS platform to scale to support a substantial increase in the use of our services or number of users in an actual commercial environment is unproven. If our LBS platform does not efficiently and effectively scale to support and manage a substantial increase in the use of our services or number of users while maintaining a high level of performance, our business will be seriously harmed. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. Therefore, you should not rely on the results achieved in any one quarter as an indication of future performance. Period to period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: changes in the pricing of our services or products or those of our competitors and changes in the pricing and content of bundled LBS offerings of our wireless carrier customers, such as the revenue model changes resulting from our recent contract amendment with Sprint; impact of results of the offering of a premium upgrade on a basic version of our service that is offered for free; 28 Table of Contents changes made to existing contractual obligations with a customer that may affect the nature and timing of revenue recognition; loss of subscribers by our wireless carrier customers or a reduction in the number of subscribers to plans that include our services; the effectiveness of our entry into new business areas, such as advertising; the timing and quality of information we receive from our customers; our inability to attract new end users; the timing and success of new service introductions by us or our competitors; the timing and success of new mobile phone introductions by our wireless carrier customers; the loss of our relationship with any particular wireless carrier customer; the timing and success of wireless carrier customers marketing expenditures; the ability of our automobile manufacturer customers to sell automobiles equipped with our products; the seasonality of new vehicle model introductions and consumer buying patterns, as well as the effects of financial market turmoil and economic uncertainty on vehicle purchases, particularly outside of the U.S.; the extent of any interruption in our services; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure; the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, products or businesses; potential foreign currency exchange gains and losses associated with expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for smartphones and LBS in the United States and other countries where we sell our services and products; changes in interest rates and our mix of investments, which would impact our return on our investments in cash and marketable securities; changes in our effective tax rates; and the impact of new accounting pronouncements. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly and we could face costly securities class action lawsuits or other unanticipated issues. If a substantial number of end users change mobile phones or if they switch to subscription plans that require active renewal by end users, our revenue could suffer. Subscription fees represent the majority of our revenue. As mobile phone development continues and new mobile phones are offered at subsidized rates to subscribers in connection with plan renewals, an increasing percentage of end users who already subscribe to our services will likely upgrade from their existing mobile phones. When subscribers make these changes, they may not be able to automatically transfer their existing subscriptions from one mobile phone to another, or may choose to discontinue our services if their new device has an alternative application pre-installed, including a free navigation service provided with the phone operating system. 29 Table of Contents In addition, currently most of our monthly subscribers are on automatic renewal subscriptions. In the future, wireless carriers may switch to subscription billing systems that require subscribers to actively renew, or opt-in, each month from current systems that passively renew unless subscribers take some action to opt-out of their subscriptions. Application store providers today primarily require subscribers to opt-in for annual or monthly subscriptions. In either case, unless we or our wireless carrier customers are able to resell subscriptions to these subscribers or replace these subscribers with other subscribers, our revenue would suffer and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult for us to predict when we will generate revenue from wireless carrier and automobile manufacturer and OEM customers. We have a lengthy and complex sales process. The integration and testing of our LBS platform with a prospective wireless carrier requires substantial time and expense before launching our LBS with that wireless carrier. In new geographic markets, our sales cycles are typically longer and may involve more challenges such as language or government regulation/compliance requirements. Even after a wireless carrier decides to launch our LBS, the integration of our LBS platform with a wireless carriers network and billing systems generally requires several months to complete. Moreover, launch of our LBS by a wireless carrier typically may be timed to coincide with a new mobile phone launch, over which we have no control. In addition, being selected to participate and designed into new vehicle models is a lengthy and time consuming process and our LBS platform may not be included for factors beyond our control if we are participating in the vehicle with an OEM. Because of these lengthy cycles, we may experience delays from the time we begin the sales process and incur increased costs and expenses to obtain a partner as a customer and integrate our LBS platform until the time we generate revenue from such wireless carrier, OEM or automobile manufacturer. These delays may make it difficult to predict when we will generate revenue from new customers. The failure of mobile phone providers selected by our wireless carrier customers to keep pace with technological and market developments in mobile phone design and the rapid transition in the industry from feature phones to smartphones may negatively affect the demand for our LBS. Wireless carriers select various mobile phones to run on their wireless networks. Our future success will depend on these mobile phone providers ability to design and manufacture mobile phones that meet the demands of wireless carriers and their subscribers. In order to continue their relationships with the wireless carriers, these mobile phone providers will have to continue to invest in developing mobile phones that are compatible with the advanced network technology that wireless carriers are deploying to increase network capacity and speed. If our wireless carrier customers fail to select mobile phone providers whose products have superior GPS capabilities or fail to adopt other advanced technologies, our ability to sell our LBS may suffer. If we do not extend our client software to these devices in a timely and efficient manner before the initial commercial launch of the mobile phone, our adoption rates will suffer. In addition, if our wireless carrier customers select mobile phones that are incompatible with our LBS client software, we will incur additional time and expenses to extend our services to those devices, which may cause us to incur unanticipated operating expenses and miss product launch windows. Because of short product life cycles in the wireless communications industry, if we fail to integrate our software on a mobile phone prior to its commercial launch or if it is preloaded with another providers LBS, we may lose a substantial opportunity to gain end users who purchase that device and our revenue may suffer. The rapid transition occurring in the market for mobile phones from feature phones to smartphones creates opportunities for competitors to enter the market for our LBS services with wireless carriers that traditionally provided a single option for their platform. This shift in consumer hardware choice may result in more competitors targeting the smartphone opportunities at lower prices without having to cooperate with the wireless carrier. We traditionally benefited in our relationship with wireless carriers through their distribution of our application for their devices as the pre-loaded option for end users. As end users become accustomed to searching out their own applications generally they may also seek out more alternatives for their LBS application. 30 Table of Contents Successful sales of our LBS depend on our wireless carrier customers keeping pace with changing consumer preferences for mobile phones and our ability to appeal to smartphone users with more application options. If our wireless carrier customers do not select mobile phones with the design attributes attractive to consumers, such as thin form factors, high resolution screens and desired functionality, customers may select wireless carriers with whom we do not have a relationship and subscriptions for our LBS may decline and, consequently, our business may be harmed. A large percentage of our research and development operations are conducted in China and our ability to introduce new services and support our existing services cost effectively depends on our ability to manage those remote development sites successfully. Our success depends on our ability to enhance our current services and develop new services and products rapidly and cost effectively. We currently have a majority of our research and development personnel in China. We recently consolidated two of our research and development centers in China to a single research and development center. Although we have sought to retain certain key personnel by transferring them to our other locations, we may be unable to retain them over the long-term. In addition, we have been experiencing significant increases in compensation costs in China due to competitive market conditions for qualified staff, as well as higher risk of employee turnover in certain China markets. We could incur unexpected costs or delays in product development that could impair our ability to meet market windows or cause us to forego certain new product opportunities. Because our long term success depends on our ability to increase the number of end users located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. As of June 30, 2012, we had international operations in China, the United Kingdom and Brazil. Our experience with wireless carriers and automobile manufacturers and OEMs outside the United States is limited. Our revenue from the United States comprised 97%, 96% and 94% of our total revenue for fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Our limited experience in operating our business outside the United States increases the risk that our current and future international expansion efforts may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently do not anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing the staffing of remote operations; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; dependence on foreign wireless carriers with different pricing models; roaming charges to end users; availability of reliable 2G, 3G and 4G mobile networks in those countries; requirements that we comply with local telecommunication regulations and automobile hands free laws in those countries; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; political, social and economic instability in some jurisdictions; terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 31 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability and we may incur losses as a result. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to retain our senior management. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our employees work for us on an at will basis. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the software industry and for persons with experience with GPS and LBS. The high degree of competition for personnel we experience has resulted in and may also continue to result in the incurrence of significantly higher compensation costs to attract, hire and retain employees. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business and future growth prospects. If we are unable to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. Other than our acquisition of Goby Technologies, Inc. in September 2011, we have not made any acquisitions to date. In the future, we may make acquisitions to improve our LBS offerings or expand into new markets. Our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Future mergers and acquisitions we may pursue would involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operation of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and customers of the companies we acquire; insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate; and our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing 32 Table of Contents stockholders will likely experience dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with financial covenants and secure that debt obligation with our assets. We may be required to incur unanticipated capital expenditures. Circumstances may arise that require us to make unanticipated capital expenditures, including: the implementation of our equipment at new data centers and expansion of our operations at data centers; the replacement of outdated or failing equipment; and the acquisition of key technologies to support or expand our LBS. We rely on network infrastructures provided by our wireless carrier customers and mobile phones for the delivery of our LBS to end users. We generally provide our services from our own servers, which require close integration with the wireless carriers networks. We may be unable to provide high quality services if the wireless carriers networks perform poorly or experience delayed response times. Our future success will depend on the availability and quality of our wireless carrier customers networks in the United States and abroad to run our LBS. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable 2G, 3G and 4G networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. We do not establish or maintain these wireless networks and have no control over interruptions or failures in the deployment and maintenance by wireless carrier customers of their network infrastructure. In addition, these wireless network infrastructures may be unable to support the demands placed on them if the number of subscribers increases, or if existing or future subscribers increase their use of limited bandwidth. Market acceptance of our LBS will depend in part on the quality of these wireless networks and the ability of our wireless carrier customers to effectively manage their subscribers expectations. Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could affect our ability to provide our LBS successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to its network infrastructure may interfere with the integration of our servers with their network and delivery of our LBS and may cause end users to lose functionality for services they have already purchased. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot control the quality standards of our wireless carrier customers, their mobile phone providers and other technology customers. We cannot guarantee that the mobile phones are free from errors or defects. If errors or defects occur in mobile phones or services offered by our wireless carrier customers, it could result in consumers terminating our services, damage to our reputation, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims, lost revenue and diverted development resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mergers, consolidations or other strategic transactions in the wireless communications industry could weaken our competitive position, reduce the number of our wireless carrier customers and adversely affect our business. The wireless communications industry continues to experience consolidation and an increased formation of alliances among wireless carriers and between wireless carriers and other entities. Should one of our wireless carrier customers consolidate or enter into an alliance with another carrier, this could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our wireless carrier customer Alltel Wireless, or Alltel, was acquired by 33 Table of Contents Verizon Wireless, or Verizon, in early 2009. Although we had an agreement with Alltel to be the exclusive white label provider of navigation services, Verizon elected to discontinue selling mobile phones preloaded with our LBS. We have experienced a decline in our revenue from the combined entity as a result of this decision, and expect this decline to continue. Such a consolidation or alliance may cause us to lose a wireless carrier customer or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which would have a negative effect on our business. We may not be able to expand our base of wireless carrier customers to offset revenue declines if we lose a wireless carrier customer or if the number of end users for our services declines. In addition, if two or more of our competitors or wireless carrier customers were to merge or partner, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with their wireless carrier customers, sales channel partners or other parties with whom we have strategic relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our LBS. These events could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results. Reduced expenditures for mobile phones, wireless services or new vehicles due to adverse or uncertain economic conditions may negatively affect our business and results of operations. Recent adverse economic conditions and future uncertainties may directly affect the marketing and distribution of mobile phones and our LBS by our wireless carrier customers and purchase of our automobile manufacturer customers new vehicles. As current and future conditions in the domestic and global economies remain uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of economic growth, which may cause some wireless carriers to emphasize marketing basic voice services rather than data services, such as LBS. In addition, subscribers may try to reduce their monthly expenses by reducing spending on discretionary wireless services, such as ours. In addition, with an increasing percentage of our revenue coming from automobile navigation products purchased in connection with the purchase of a new vehicle, we may experience a decline in revenue if spending on new vehicles is impacted due to economic conditions. Accordingly, the future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have an impact on our overall performance. Economic conditions are beyond our control. If these economic conditions worsen or fail to improve, we may experience reduced demand for and pricing pressure on our LBS, which could harm our operating results. Changes in business direction and market conditions could lead to charges related to structural reorganization and discontinuation of certain products or services, which may adversely affect our financial results. In response to changing market conditions and the desire to focus on new and more potentially attractive opportunities, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, eliminating, or otherwise exiting certain business activities. Any decision to reduce investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction and excessive facility space costs. Risks related to our intellectual property and regulation We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us or our wireless carrier customers may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Our commercial success depends in part upon us and our customers not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation and it is not uncommon for our wireless carrier customers and competitors to be involved in infringement lawsuits by or against third parties. Many industry participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property aggressively assert their rights, and our wireless carrier customers, which we agree in certain circumstances to indemnify for intellectual property infringement claims related to our services, are often targets of such assertions. We cannot 34 Table of Contents determine with certainty whether any existing or future third party intellectual property rights would require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We have received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties asserting infringement and other related claims. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we were named as a defendant in several cases alleging that our services infringe other parties patents, as well as other matters. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a description of these matters. These cases and future litigation may make it necessary to defend ourselves and our wireless carrier customers by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us or our wireless carrier customers. These companies typically have little or no product revenue and therefore our patents may provide little or no deterrence against such companies filing patent infringement lawsuits against us. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: adversely affect our relationships with our current or future wireless carrier customers; cause delays or stoppages in the shipment of Telenav enabled mobile phones or vehicles, or cause us to modify or suspend the provision of our LBS; cause us to incur significant expenses in defending claims brought against our wireless carrier customers or us; divert managements attention and resources; subject us to significant damages or settlements; require us to enter into settlements, royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms; or require us to cease certain activities. In addition to liability for monetary damages against us or, in certain circumstances, our wireless carrier customers, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide certain of our LBS unless we obtain licenses from the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and we could, for example, be required to cease offering our LBS or be required to materially alter our LBS, which could involve substantial costs and time to develop. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defective software and other losses. Our agreements with our customers include indemnification provisions. We agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our LBS or navigation products, including as a result of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defects and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally substantial and may be unlimited. In addition, some of these agreements permit our indemnitees to terminate their agreements with us if they determine that the use of our LBS or navigation products infringes third party intellectual property. We have received, and expect to receive in the future, demands for indemnification under these agreements. These demands can be very expensive to settle or defend, and we have in the past incurred substantial legal fees 35 Table of Contents and settlement costs in connection with certain of these indemnity demands. Furthermore, we have been notified by several wireless carriers that they have been named as defendants in certain patent infringement cases for which they may seek indemnification from us. See the section entitled Legal Proceedings. These indemnity demands relate to pending litigation and remain outstanding and unresolved as of the date of this Form 10-K. Large future indemnity payments and associated legal fees and expenses, including potential indemnity payments and legal fees and expenses relating to the current or future notifications, could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may in the future agree to defend and indemnify our customers in connection with the pending notifications or future demands, irrespective of whether we believe that we have an obligation to indemnify them or whether we believe that our services and products infringe the asserted intellectual property rights. Alternatively, we may reject certain of our customers indemnity demands, which may lead to disputes with our customers and may negatively impact our relationships with them or result in litigation against us. Our customers may also claim that any rejection of their indemnity demands constitutes a material breach of our agreements with them, allowing them to terminate such agreements. Our agreements with certain customers may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or services infringed upon a third partys rights. If, as a result of indemnity demands, we make substantial payments, our relationships with our customers are negatively impacted or if any of our wireless carrier agreements is terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. See the section entitled Legal Proceedings. The occurrence or perception of a security breach or disclosure of confidential information could harm our business. Our LBS include the transmission and storage of personal, private and confidential information primarily related to the location of our end users. If there is a security breach or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of any of these types of information, we could be exposed to investigations, litigation, fines and penalties. Remediation of and liability for loss or misappropriation of end user or employee personal information could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Even if we were not held liable for such event, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of personal, private or confidential information could harm our reputation and our relationships with current and potential end users. Even the perception of a security risk could inhibit market acceptance of our LBS. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect against damages caused by any actual or perceived disruptions of our LBS or security breaches. We may also be required to provide information about the location of an end users mobile phone (or vehicle, with respect to certain of our enterprise LBS ) to government authorities, which could result in public perception that we are providing the government with intelligence information and deter some end users from using our services. Any of these developments could harm our business. Changes in government regulation of the wireless communications industry and the automobile industry may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the wireless communications industry or further regulate the automobile industry, including laws and regulations regarding lawful interception of personal data, hands free use of mobile phones or navigation services within autos or the control of such use, privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic storage of personal information may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours that store personal information. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the wireless communications or automobile industries may make operation more costly, and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our LBS. 36 Table of Contents We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our LBS or products contain defects, there are errors in the maps supplied by third party map providers or if our end users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and under certain circumstances could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain limited insurance against accident related risks involving our products. However, we cannot assure you that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in litigation by consumers individually or on behalf of a class if their handsets or automobiles suffer problems from software downloads from our customers. If we are unable to obtain indemnification from our customer for any damages or legal fees we may incur in connection with such complaints, our financial position may be adversely impacted. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover an award, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Government regulation designed to protect end user privacy may make it difficult for us to provide our services or adopt advertising based revenue models. We transmit and store a large volume of personal information in the course of providing our LBS. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information that is collected, stored and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. Legislation may also be adopted in various jurisdictions that prohibits use of personal information and search histories to target end users with tailored advertising, or provide advertising at all. Although our advertising revenue to date is not significant, we anticipate we will continue to grow advertising revenue in the future to improve ARPU in certain markets. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. For example, the USA PATRIOT Act provides certain rights to U.S. law enforcement authorities to obtain personal information in the control of U.S. persons and entities without notifying the affected individuals. If we are required to allocate significant resources to modify the delivery of our services to enable enhanced legal interception of the personal information that we transmit and store, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, because various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage and transmission of personal information, we may face unknown requirements that pose compliance challenges in new international markets that we seek to enter. Such variation could subject us to costs, delayed service launches, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of personal information. These and other privacy concerns could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed. We rely primarily on a combination of patent laws, trademark laws, copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. However, our issued patents and any future patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not issue from any of our current or any future applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our LBS. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology, including the proprietary software components of our LBS and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We use open source software in our LBS platform and client applications that may subject our LBS platform and client applications to general release or require us to re-engineer our LBS platform and client applications, which may cause harm to our business. We use open source software in our LBS platform and client applications and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release our proprietary source code. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our LBS platform and client applications, discontinue the sale of our service in the event 38 Table of Contents re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks related to being a publicly traded company and holding our common stock As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or such internal control may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we test our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure