Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, future sources of revenue, expectations of expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us and our refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 as fiscal 2013, the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014 as fiscal 2014 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 as "fiscal 2015. Overview Our mission is to help reduce stress, improve productivity, and make life more fun for people on the go. Our personalized navigation services help people make smarter decisions about where to go, what to do, when to leave, and how to get there. We are a leader in personalized mobile navigation. We help on the go people by creating products that (1) provide easily-accessed, relevant, and personalized information for discovery, traffic, maps, local search, and navigation and (2) are available across multiple platforms and devices, including mobile phones, tablets, computers and cars. With millions of users able to access Telenav services while on the go today, we believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on growing location services market opportunities, especially as related to connected cars and mobile advertising. We offer our mobile navigation services to customers in a number of ways. We distribute our services through our wireless carrier partners, including AT&T Mobility LLC, or AT&T, and directly to consumers through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Generally, we provide our basic services to consumers for free and provide consumers the opportunity to purchase premium versions of the product. We refer to the free to premium distribution as the freemium model of distribution. Our free products are designed to be monetized through delivery of advertising to consumers. Our success with the freemium model depends upon our ability to generate a substantial active user base as well as the ability to generate revenue from advertising and conversion of users from free to premium services. We offer our automotive navigation services to auto manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for distribution with their vehicles. Our primary customer to date, Ford Motor Company, or Ford, currently distributes our product as an optional feature with the majority of its models in the U.S. Our product is now included on models manufactured in the U.S., Mexico, South America and China. We also have a relationship with another automotive OEM that distributes our products with another major auto manufacturer and we recently announced an agreement with a top five worldwide auto manufacturer for integration of our off-board and connected solutions in its vehicles, which we expect to commence in model year 2017. Our automotive solutions are typically a self-contained solution including software and related services and content within the car, or on-board, and are often enhanced through connection to data services for additional real time capabilities such as traffic. Our history as a cloud based supplier of navigation services provides a unique advantage in the marketplace over our competitors. 17 Table of Contents Our advertising network services offer advertisers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We are experts in location-based advertising and offer unique value to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers with our location targeting capabilities. We do this by accessing a large universe of impressions, and filtering out those that are tagged with accurate, real-time and historical location information. We filter out these impressions using a wide range of sophisticated proprietary techniques. In December 2013, our platform had access to approximately 63 billion potential ad impressions. We derive revenue from wireless carriers and end users, automobile manufacturers and OEMs, and mobile advertisers and advertising agencies. We primarily derive our revenue from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our navigation services. We also derive revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our mobile navigation services to their subscribers. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies that represent national and regional brick-and-mortar brands and channel partners that work closely with local and small business advertisers. We generate revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform, which includes MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. Ford began shipping this product in certain North American vehicles with the 2011 model year, and our navigation solution is currently deployed in 18 different Ford and Lincoln models. Ford and Lincoln models with our on-board automotive navigation product began shipping to South America with the 2012 model year and China with the 2013 model year. Our automobile manufacturer and OEM customers pay us a royalty fee as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles with our automotive navigation solutions. We generate revenue from mobile navigation services through service subscriptions, including premium offerings, and fixed fee arrangements. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through application stores. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. Historically, our write-offs for uncollectible accounts have not been significant. However, as we generate more of our revenue from advertising services, we believe the risk profile of our customers has changed. We believe that certain of our advertising network services customers, who are often not as well capitalized as our mobile navigation and automotive navigation services customers, may present a higher risk of default. As a result, we anticipate that we may experience a greater risk of delayed payments and potential write-offs for uncollectible accounts as our advertising revenue grows. Recent Developments On January 29, 2014, we completed our acquisition of all of the shares of privately held skobbler GmbH, or skobbler, a navigation company based in Germany. We acquired skobbler for consideration of approximately $23.8 million , consisting of approximately $19.2 million in cash and $4.6 million in restricted shares of our common stock. We believe the acquisition of skobbler will enable us to combine its OpenStreetMap (OSM)-based GPS navigation technology with our existing mobile navigation solutions. The transaction will be accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. We have not yet completed our preliminary fair value estimates for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from skobbler. In January 2014, we announced that we had entered into a contract with one of the five largest global auto manufacturers to provide worldwide embedded and connected navigation services beginning with select model year 2017 vehicles. The agreement covers an initial three-year production cycle, which we expect to commence with select model year 2017 vehicles. Under the terms of the agreement, we expect our connected services to support navigation in more than 100 countries. There are no volume or revenue guarantees provided by this auto manufacturer. As of October 1, 2013, Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint, no longer provides us compensation for our services on a fixed fee basis for bundled offerings provided to its customers. The revenue we receive from Sprint consists primarily of revenue from monthly recurring fees paid by end users for premium services. The current monthly recurring fee revenue is substantially lower than the fee revenue we had previously received from Sprint for the bundling of our services and we anticipate that this trend will continue. During the three months ended December 31, 2013, we did not experience significant replacement revenue from subscribers who formerly had access to our services through the Sprint bundles. 18 Table of Contents During fiscal 2013 and the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 , we also experienced declines in the number of paid monthly recurring fee end users at other large wireless carrier customers, AT&T, T-Mobile USA, or T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular Corporation, or USCC, and we expect this trend to continue. As a result, we expect that our revenue from wireless carrier partners will continue to decline substantially and that the composition of the remaining wireless carrier revenue will change over the near term. We expect our total revenue in fiscal 2014 will decline substantially from previous years as we do not foresee revenue from automotive navigation or advertising growing sufficiently to offset the loss of wireless carrier revenue in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2014, as was the case in fiscal 2013, we expect that subscription revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers for navigation will decline substantially as our agreement with Sprint transitions to a predominantly freemium model and AT&T, T-Mobile, and USCC continue to experience declines in subscribers paying monthly recurring charges for navigation applications. We expect that over time, certain other wireless carrier partners will shift to models in which we are not compensated on a fixed basis for our services but instead share revenue received with them, whether that revenue is generated directly from monthly recurring charges for navigation services or from advertising in our navigation services. We do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate as services revenue, if at all. We will continue to incur significant costs, especially third party content and data center operations costs, associated with providing our navigation services at reduced revenue rates across a smaller group of subscribers or free under our freemium distribution model. We also anticipate that because of our efforts to grow automotive, mobile advertising and other strategic revenue sources, our operating expenses will not decline in fiscal 2014 at the same rate as our revenue, if at all materially. As a result, we incurred a net loss in the three months ended December 31, 2013, for the first time since fiscal 2007, and we believe that we will incur substantial net losses in fiscal 2014. At this time we do not know when we may return to profitability. We also expect our acquisition of skobbler to be dilutive to our results of operations in the near term. In an effort to focus more and strengthen our strategic consumer, advertising and automotive businesses, in April 2013 we completed the sale of our enterprise business to FleetCor Technologies Operating Company, LLC, or FleetCor, for approximately $10.0 million in cash and the assumption by FleetCor of certain liabilities relating to our enterprise business. In connection with the completion of the transaction, 50 of our employees became employees of FleetCor. We entered into a noncompetition agreement with FleetCor in which we agreed not to re-enter the enterprise business for a period of three years after the closing. We are providing certain services to FleetCor to facilitate the transition of the business and we expect to continue to provide those services during the remainder of fiscal 2014. These services are not material to our statement of income for fiscal 2014 and they have not been presented as discontinued operations. The results of operations of our enterprise business have been classified as discontinued operations in our statement of income for all periods presented through fiscal 2013. All information in the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations includes only results from continuing operations (excluding our enterprise business) for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted. Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, from continuing operations and diluted non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share are not measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do. 19 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue $ 37,161 $ 47,229 $ 81,457 $ 89,751 Gross margin 59 % 63 % 62 % 68 % Non-GAAP gross margin 61 % 66 % 64 % 70 % Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax $ (3,997 ) $ 418 $ (3,988 ) $ 2,639 Non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax $ (1,171 ) $ 4,184 $ 1,661 $ 8,167 Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations $ (2,716 ) $ 6,534 $ 1,228 $ 12,437 Diluted income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share $ (0.10 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.10 ) $ 0.06 Diluted non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share $ (0.03 ) $ 0.10 $ 0.04 $ 0.19 Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Non-GAAP gross margin measures our GAAP gross margin, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense and capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses. Non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, measures GAAP net income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, and other items such as legal settlements and restructuring costs, net of taxes. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Stock-based compensation expense has been and will continue to be a significant recurring non-cash expense for us. While we include the dilutive impact of such equity awards in weighted average shares outstanding, the expense associated with stock-based awards reflects a non-cash charge that we exclude from non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share, and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations. Capitalized software amortization expense represents internal software costs that are previously capitalized and charged to expense as the software is used in our operations. Developed technology amortization expense relates to the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Legal settlements represent settlements from patent litigation cases in which we are defendants and royalty disputes. Restructuring costs represent recognition of the estimated amount of costs associated with restructuring activities. Our non-GAAP tax rate from continuing operations differs from the GAAP tax rate from continuing operations due to the elimination of any tax effect of the GAAP stock-based compensation expenses, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, legal settlements, restructuring costs, and other items that are being eliminated to arrive at the non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax. Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations measures our GAAP income (loss) excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization, interest income, other income (expense), provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other items such as legal settlements and restructuring costs, net of tax. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss and this metric excludes certain non-cash expenses, interest and other income (expense), income taxes, and certain other items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. In addition, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA are key financial measures used by the compensation committee of our board of directors in connection with the development of incentive-based compensation for our executive officers. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Diluted non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share is calculated as non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. 20 Table of Contents These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations do not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations and diluted non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, per share alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other GAAP financial results. The following tables present reconciliations of gross margin to non-GAAP gross margin, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, to non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, to adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, Six Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Gross margin 59 % 63 % 62 % 68 % Adjustments: Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 % Stock-based compensation expense % % % % Non-GAAP gross margin 61 % 66 % 64 % 70 % Three Months Ended December 31, Six Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net income (loss) $ (3,997 ) $ 904 $ (3,988 ) $ 3,605 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 486 966 Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax (3,997 ) 418 (3,988 ) 2,639 Adjustments: Legal settlement 1,300 1,300 Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 818 1,091 1,718 1,676 Stock-based compensation expense: Cost of revenue $ 30 $ 39 $ 66 $ 76 Research and development 1,063 889 2,072 1,528 Sales and marketing 769 633 1,466 992 General and administrative 801 616 1,542 1,001 Total stock-based compensation 2,663 2,177 5,146 3,597 Tax effect of adding back adjustments (655 ) (802 ) (1,215 ) (1,045 ) Non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax $ (1,171 ) $ 4,184 $ 1,661 $ 8,167 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended December 31, Six Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net income (loss) $ (3,997 ) $ 904 $ (3,988 ) $ 3,605 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 486 966 Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax (3,997 ) 418 (3,988 ) 2,639 Adjustments: Legal settlement 1,300 1,300 Stock-based compensation expense 2,663 2,177 5,146 3,597 Depreciation and amortization 1,630 2,363 3,424 4,255 Interest and other income, net (1,121 ) (614 ) (1,403 ) (1,036 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1,891 ) 890 (1,951 ) 1,682 Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations $ (2,716 ) $ 6,534 $ 1,228 $ 12,437 Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We offer voice-guided, real time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Scout by Telenav and Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands) including AT&T Navigator and Your Navigator Deluxe. Our technology also powers automotive navigation solutions that provide accurate, easy to use navigation services to drivers, including search, points of interest, or POI, and traffic services. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to cover the costs of these anticipated efforts for the foreseeable future. We offer our mobile navigation services to customers in a number of ways. Currently, we primarily derive our revenue from our wireless carrier customers for their end users' subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier customers with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier customers pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services on a standalone basis. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as the Apple App Store and the Google Play marketplace. Finally, we provide free versions of our services which can generate fees through advertising supported arrangements, and subscriber upgrades to more premium versions for a fee. We derive revenue from the delivery of customized software products and royalties from the distribution of these software products in certain automotive navigation applications. We also derive revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract, which we began to offer in the three months ended December 31, 2012 with our acquisition of Thinknear. In the future, we may have other revenue models. We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications; services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our mobile navigation services, off-board automotive navigation services, mobile advertising and premium navigation services. For services that our subscribers purchase through our wireless carriers, our wireless carrier customers are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our navigation services. With respect to Sprint, through September 30, 2013, we received a guaranteed fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. We recognized revenue for the aggregate fees monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user in our revenue sharing arrangements may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average 22 Table of Contents monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier customers generally have sole discretion about how to price our mobile navigation services to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through application stores. Ford represented 43% and 27% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We provide both on-board and off-board connected navigation solutions to Ford. Our on-board solution consists of software, map and POI data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. We recognize revenue from our on-board solutions as the related customized software is delivered to, and accepted by our customers. In addition, we recognize royalties earned from our on-board solutions generally as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles. Our off-board connected solution enables a mobile device that is paired with the vehicle to activate in-vehicle text-based and voice-guided turn by turn navigation. We recognize revenue from our off-board connected solutions monthly based on annual subscriptions, which are subject to a maximum annual fee with Ford. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . AT&T represented 25% and 34% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. In March 2014, our agreement with AT&T will be automatically renewed, under its existing terms through March 2015, and provides that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our navigation services. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future; however, we have recently seen substantial declines in the number of paying subscribers for our services through AT&T . Sprint represented 9% and 18% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We operate under an agreement with Sprint, which we most recently amended in April 2013. Under this amended agreement, we and Sprint agreed to continue the fixed fee arrangement related to the Sprint bundle through September 30, 2013, and to partner to generate revenue from premium navigation and mobile advertising programs through December 31, 2015. Commencing on October 1, 2013, Sprint no longer bundles our navigation services, which caused our revenue to decrease substantially in the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 . A majority of the Sprint subscribers who were receiving our services through bundles as of September 30, 2013 did not convert to our paid navigation services and we have not recouped the lost revenue through freemium or monthly recurring charges paid by those Sprint subscribers. Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation services, excluding premium navigation services, represented 43% and 67% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation services declined in the comparable three month period, primarily due to the transition to the termination of the Sprint fixed fee services as of October 1, 2013 and a decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and T-Mobile. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions represented 48% and 27% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue from our mobile advertising and premium navigation services represented 9% and 6% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We expect that the percentage of our revenue represented by wireless carrier customers will decline substantially in fiscal 2014 because Sprint ceased to bundle our services as of October 1, 2013 and more end users are using free navigation services rather than paying monthly recurring charges with other wireless carrier customers. We anticipate that we will not be successful in the short term at fully replacing lost wireless carrier revenue with revenue from automotive and advertising, resulting in a substantial decline in our total revenue in fiscal 2014 relative to prior years. For fiscal 2014, we expect automotive and advertising revenue to represent the most rapidly growing components of our revenue but our expectations may not be realized. Although we are working to replace historical wireless carrier revenue, we believe that the growth of alternative sources of revenue, while material, will be insufficient to offset the declines in wireless carrier revenue in the short-term. As a result, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur net losses in fiscal 2014 and we do not know when we may return to profitability. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , we generated 94% and 92% of our revenue, respectively, in the United States. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturer's or OEM's United States' entity. Cost of revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content, such as map, POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology that we use in providing our navigation services. Our cost of revenue also includes the 23 Table of Contents cost of third party exchange ad inventory as well as expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred development costs on specific projects, and amortization of developed technology. The largest component of our cost of revenue is the fee we pay to providers of map, POI and traffic data, TomTom North America, Inc., or TomTom, and HERE North America, LLC, a Nokia Company, or HERE. We have agreements with TomTom and HERE pursuant to which we pay royalties according to a variety of different fee schedules, including on a per use basis, on a per end user per month basis, and on a per installed vehicle basis. With respect to TomTom, we are required to pay certain minimum fees for access to its content by our mobile navigation customers. For our on-board navigation solutions provided to Ford, we pay royalties on a per unit produced basis. We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions and recognition of deferred development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third party content, third party exchange ad inventory, data center operations, customer support, amortization of capitalized software, stock-based compensation and amortization of developed technology that we incur in providing our navigation services, mobile advertising and premium navigation services. We primarily provide mobile navigation service customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. We use three outsourced, hosted data centers and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally offer to our wireless carrier customers and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier customer agreement. While we expect that services revenue from wireless carrier customers will decline substantially in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate as services revenue, if at all. We will continue to incur significant costs, especially third party content and data center operations costs, associated with providing our navigation services at reduced revenue rates or free under our freemium distribution model. We expect that our total cost of revenue will increase as a percentage of revenue as we increase the percentage of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad costs, respectively, than our navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. We expect that our cost of revenue will decrease in absolute dollars, as it will be impacted by declining third party content costs associated with the decline in revenue from wireless carrier customers, partially offset by increased amortization of developed technology acquired. Cost of revenue related to our advertising business will be impacted by our ability to grow advertising revenue, as well as the cost and availability of display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, facilities, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. Our operating expenses have stabilized in absolute dollars in the past year, as we have reduced certain headcount and achieved greater operational effectiveness. Despite these recent efforts, we expect that certain costs will continue to increase over time, including compensation and related costs; however, we are continuing to evaluate spending in certain areas and taking actions to create greater efficiencies. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount in, or reallocation of employee personnel into, our strategic growth areas, which include automotive, mobile advertising, and premium mobile navigation services. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development employees and costs of outside consultants. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. A majority of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB. In addition, with the January 2014 acquisition of skobbler, we expect to incur substantial research and development expenses in the Romanian Leu. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales, product management and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising 24 Table of Contents and promotional activities. Historically, a majority of our revenue was derived from wireless carriers, which bore much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers, as well as consumers acquired through open market app stores. More recently, our automotive and advertising revenue have represented the most rapidly growing components of our revenue, and we have invested in building our advertising sales team. Our sales and marketing activities supporting our automotive navigation services include product management and business development efforts. Our automotive manufacturer partners and OEMs also provide primary marketing for our on-board and off-board navigation services at the time a vehicle is sold to their end customer. We expect to increase our investment in sales and marketing activities, in part, to support our initiatives in the automotive industry and mobile advertising and to promote our branded services directly to end users. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income, net . Other income, net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and foreign exchange gains and losses. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax . Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, consists of results of operations of our enterprise business, which was sold in April 2013. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Historically, our provision for income taxes primarily consisted of corporate income taxes related to profits earned in the United States. However, in the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 , we have recognized a tax benefit on our losses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected by increases in nondeductible stock compensation or other nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in our ability to benefit from the carryback of net operating losses within the carryback period, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2013. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of income data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. The results of operations of our enterprise business have been classified as discontinued operations in our statement of income for all periods presented through fiscal 2013. The discontinued operations are not material for fiscal 2014 and they 25 Table of Contents have not been presented as discontinued operations in our statement of income for fiscal 2014. The following discussion focuses solely on results of continuing operations. Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 31, December 31, Consolidated Statements of Income Data 2013 2012 2013 2012 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 18,367 $ 14,542 $ 37,658 $ 23,390 Services 18,794 32,687 43,799 66,361 Total revenue 37,161 47,229 81,457 89,751 Cost of revenue: Product 9,367 9,103 18,676 13,371 Services 5,823 8,178 12,594 15,603 Total cost of revenue 15,190 17,281 31,270 28,974 Gross profit 21,971 29,948 50,187 60,777 Operating expenses: Research and development 14,315 14,298 29,133 29,305 Sales and marketing 7,910 7,577 15,668 14,811 General and administrative 6,755 7,379 12,728 13,376 Total operating expenses 28,980 29,254 57,529 57,492 Operating income (loss) (7,009 ) 694 (7,342 ) 3,285 Other income, net 1,121 614 1,403 1,036 Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes (5,888 ) 1,308 (5,939 ) 4,321 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1,891 ) 890 (1,951 ) 1,682 Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax (3,997 ) 418 (3,988 ) 2,639 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 486 966 Net income (loss) $ (3,997 ) $ 904 $ (3,988 ) $ 3,605 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Product 49 % 31 % 46 % 26 % Services 51 % 69 % 54 % 74 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 25 % 19 % 23 % 15 % Services 16 % 17 % 15 % 17 % Total cost of revenue 41 % 37 % 38 % 32 % Gross profit 59 % 63 % 62 % 68 % Operating expenses: Research and development 39 % 30 % 36 % 33 % Sales and marketing 21 % 16 % 19 % 16 % General and administrative 18 % 16 % 16 % 15 % Total operating expenses 78 % 62 % 71 % 64 % Operating income (loss) (19 )% 1 % (9 )% 4 % Other income, net 3 % 2 % 2 % 1 % Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes (16 )% 3 % (7 )% 5 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5 )% 2 % (2 )% 2 % Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax (11 )% 1 % (5 )% 3 % Income from discontinued operations, net of tax % 1 % % 1 % Net income (loss) (11 )% 2 % (5 )% 4 % Comparison of the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Revenue . Product revenue . Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. Product revenue increased 26% to $18.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $14.5 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Product revenue increased 61% to $37.7 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $23.4 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The increase in the comparable three and six month periods was due primarily to increased revenue from automotive navigation solutions we provide for our two automotive customers. In addition, product revenue in the three and six months ended December 31, 2012 included $2.7 million related to a map content update separately purchased by Ford. Services revenue . Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our mobile navigation services and mobile advertising. Services revenue decreased 43% to $18.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $32.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Services revenue decreased 34% to $43.8 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $66.4 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The decrease in the comparable three and six month periods was due primarily to lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T, T-Mobile and USCC, the termination of our fixed fee revenue from Sprint for bundled users, and a decrease in mobile navigation revenue internationally. Accordingly, in the three months ended December 31, 2013 , services revenue from AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, USCC and international customers decreased by $15.6 million. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 , services revenue from AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, USCC and international customers decreased by $24.8 million. These decreases were partially offset by growth in revenue from advertising network services. Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , revenue from Ford represented 46% and 32% of our total revenue, respectively; revenue from AT&T represented 26% and 31% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from Sprint represented 3% and 18% of our total revenue, respectively. In the six months ended December 31, 27 Table of Contents 2013 and 2012 , revenue from Ford represented 43% and 27% of our total revenue, respectively; revenue from AT&T represented 25% and 34% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from Sprint represented 9% and 18% of our total revenue, respectively. No other customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in such periods. Subscription fees from our mobile navigation services, excluding premium navigation services, represented 38% and 62% of our total revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Subscription fees from our mobile navigation service, excluding premium navigation services, represented 43% and 67% of our total revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions represented 51% and 32% of our revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions represented 48% and 27% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue from our mobile advertising and premium navigation services represented 11% and 6% of our revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue from our mobile advertising and premium navigation services represented 9% and 6% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 94% and 91% of our total revenue, respectively. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 94% and 92% of our total revenue, respectively. Cost of revenue . Cost of product revenue . Our cost of product revenue increased 3% to $9.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $9.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , which was lower than the 26% increase in product revenue. Our cost of product revenue increased 40% to $18.7 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $13.4 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 , which was lower than the 61% increase in product revenue. Our cost of product revenue increased in the comparable three and six month periods due primarily to an increase in third party content costs of $1.2 million and $6.0 million, respectively, commensurate with the growth in our product revenue, partially offset by a decrease due to the elimination of costs associated with a fiscal 2013 map content update provided to Ford. Cost of product revenue increased at a lower rate than product revenue for the comparable three and six month periods due primarily to the elimination of costs associated with the map content update for Ford that were included in the three and six months ended December 31, 2012 . The $2.7 million of revenue related to the map content update separately purchased by Ford had substantially higher associated content costs as a percentage of revenue than our on-board navigation revenue earned from Ford for production vehicles. Cost of services revenue . Our cost of services revenue decreased 29% to $5.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $8.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Our cost of services revenue decreased 19% to $12.6 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $15.6 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . Cost of services revenue did not decline commensurate with the 43% and 34% decrease in services revenue for the comparable three and six month periods, respectively. Cost of services revenue in the comparable three month period was impacted by a decrease in third party content costs of $1.2 million as well as decreased customer support and data center costs. Cost of services revenue in the comparable six month period was impacted by a decrease in third party content costs of $1.8 million as well as decreased customer support and data center costs, partially offset by increased amortization expense of $0.4 million, primarily related to the developed technology acquired from Thinknear. Gross profit . Our gross profit decreased to $22.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $29.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Our gross profit decreased to $50.2 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $60.8 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . Our gross margin decreased to 59% in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from 63% in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , and decreased to 62% in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from 68% in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The decrease in gross margin in the comparable three and six month periods was primarily due to lower services revenue and the increased proportion of product revenue contributed from our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to our automotive customers, which generally have higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our mobile navigation services provided through our wireless carrier customers. We expect our gross margin to continue to decline as the percentage of our revenue from automotive offerings increases, and as a result of increased competition on our offering of mobile navigation services, especially from other freemium offerings. In addition, our gross margin will continue to be negatively impacted in the future by the amortization of developed technology acquired as part of our acquisition of Thinknear and our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler. Research and development . Our research and development expenses were comparable at $14.3 million in each of the three month periods ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Our research and development expenses decreased 1% to $29.1 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $29.3 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . 28 Table of Contents Compensation and benefits costs in the three months ended December 31, 2013 decreased by $1.0 million due to decreased average headcount, primarily in our China offices. However, this change was offset by the reimbursement of $1.0 million of costs in connection with a cost recovery contract with a third party that we benefited from in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . The change in the comparable six month period was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits costs of $1.8 million associated with decreased average headcount, primarily in our China offices, and a decrease in rent expense of $0.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in capitalization and deferral of software development costs of $1.2 million. This net decrease was further offset by the reimbursement of $1.0 million of costs in connection with a cost recovery contract with a third party that was included in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 39% in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from 30% in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , and increased to 36% in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from 33% in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The total number of research and development personnel decreased 23% to 438 at December 31, 2013 from 570 at December 31, 2012 . A substantial portion of the decline in headcount occurred in June 2013 in conjunction with our restructuring efforts. Although the number of our research and development personnel has decreased in the short-term, we expect research and development expenses will not reflect a proportionate decrease as we have retained research and development personnel in higher cost geographic areas. We also expect research and development expenses to increase as a result of our acquisition of skobbler in January 2014; however, on a full time equivalent basis, research and development personnel in Romania, where skobblers primary research and development center is located, are lower cost than we have historically experienced in the United States. We also believe that as we continue to invest in expanding the navigation services we offer, establish relationships with new automotive manufacturers and OEMs and advertisers and develop new services and products, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the related research and development expenses. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 4% to $7.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $7.6 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 6% to $15.7 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $14.8 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The increase in the three months ended December 31, 2013 was primarily due to increases in compensation, benefits and commissions of $0.2 million and stock-based compensation of $0.2 million. The increase in the six months ended December 31, 2013 was primarily due to an increase in contracted services of $0.9 million, which includes expensed content licenses not incorporated in our technology, and increased stock-based compensation of $0.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in advertising and promotion expense of $0.6 million. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 21% in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from 16% in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , and increased to 19% in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from 16% in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel decreased 17% to 100 at December 31, 2013 from 120 at December 31, 2012 . We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase over time in absolute dollars as we add sales personnel to support our advertising business. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses decreased 8% to $6.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from $7.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Our general and administrative expenses decreased 5% to $12.7 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from $13.4 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was primarily due to decreased legal settlement costs of $1.8 million, partially offset by increased compensation and benefits costs of $0.7 million and increased stock-based compensation of $0.2 million. The decrease in the comparable six month period was primarily due to decreased legal costs of $2.4 million, partially offset by increased compensation and benefits costs of $0.7 million, increased stock-based compensation of $0.5 million and increased training costs of $0.2 million. The total number of general and administrative personnel increased 1% to 71 at December 31, 2013 from 70 at December 31, 2012 . As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 18% in the three months ended December 31, 2013 from 16% in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , and decreased to 16% in the six months ended December 31, 2013 from 15% in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . We anticipate that our general and administrative expenses may vary substantially from period to period as our legal expenses associated with ongoing intellectual property litigation and requests for indemnification related to intellectual property litigation proceed. We also expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as a result of the management of our acquisition of skobbler, which is based in Germany. Other income, net . Our other income, net was $1.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2013 and $614,000 in the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Our other income, net was $1.4 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and $1.0 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . Other income, net for the three and six months ended December 31, 2013 included a $0.8 million gain from the sale of an investment in a privately-held company. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax . Income from discontinued operations, net consists of results of operations of our enterprise business, which was sold in April 2013. 29 Table of Contents Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes, excluding discontinued operations, was $(2.0) million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 compared to $1.7 million in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . Our effective tax rate, excluding discontinued operations, was 33% in the six months ended December 31, 2013 compared to 39% in the six months ended December 31, 2012 . Our effective tax rate of 33% , which resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit for the six months ended December 31, 2013 , was lower than the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to nondeductible stock compensation and nondeductible expenses partially offset by the exempt income and research and development credits. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of December 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $6.3 million . Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013 was $4.8 million that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We had $392,000 and $314,000 accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at December 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, respectively. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have subsidiaries. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2013 in the U.S., for fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2013 in state jurisdictions, and for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2013 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets to the amount that it is more likely than not to be realized in future periods. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. Based on the information available at December 31, 2013, our conclusion that most of our US and a portion of our state deferred tax assets are realizable. We continue to monitor and evaluate the realizability on a quarterly basis. If it is determined that it is not more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will be realized we may record additional valuation allowance at that time. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2013 was $2.9 million which was primarily attributable to California and foreign deferred tax assets. Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below: Six Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (6,802 ) $ 41,808 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 24,583 (15,304 ) Net cash used in financing activities (6,411 ) (10,629 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 45 (45 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 11,415 $ 15,830 At December 31, 2013 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $175.6 million , which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, municipal securities, corporate bonds, and commercial paper held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we utilized $19.2 million in our acquisition of skobbler GmbH, which was completed in January 2014. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of December 31, 2013 , our accounts receivable balance was $25.9 million , of which Ford and AT&T represented 41% and 24% , respectively. 30 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our use of cash in fiscal 2014 to support our operations during our transition, our growth rate, if any, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we expect to continue to use cash in operating activities in fiscal 2014 and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities, revenue that is lower than we anticipate, or greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them; we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, including against competitors who offer their services for free; our wireless carrier customers were to elect not to market and distribute our mobile navigation services to end users; or our wireless carrier customers were to elect to lower the prices charged to their subscribers for our service. We may also use additional cash balances for acquisitions, such as our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or additional license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities . Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $ (6.8) million and $ 41.8 million in the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities has historically been affected by changes in our end user base and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 , cash used in operating activities was the result of a net loss of $4.0 million , adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 3.4 million , stock-based compensation of $ 5.1 million and accretion of net premium on short-term investments of $ 1.9 million , which were more than offset by $ 13.6 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted principally from an increase in restricted cash of $11.0 million and decreases in accrued royalties of $4.7 million and deferred revenue of $ 4.6 million primarily as a result of Sprint ceasing to compensate us for services we provide to its customers through bundled offerings effective October 1, 2013, partially offset by an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $9.1 million . In the six months ended December 31, 2012 , cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $ 3.6 million , adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 4.3 million , and stock-based compensation of $ 3.6 million , partially offset by $ 27.7 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . Our investing activities provided (used) $ 24.6 million and $ (15.3) million during the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment and internal software development costs. We expect to make additional purchases of property and equipment in future periods as we continue to invest in infrastructure, as well as replace equipment nearing the end of its service life. However, we will balance such purchases with our increasing use of hosted data services in an effort to more efficiently scale operations, particularly with respect to our growing advertising business. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $25.7 million . In the six months ended December 31, 2012 , cash used in investing activities was used principally for our acquisition of Thinknear for $18.3 million , purchases of property and equipment of $ 1.2 million and additions to capitalized software of $0.6 million , partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $5.4 million . Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we used $19.2 million of cash in our acquisition of skobbler. Net cash used in financing activities . During the six months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , we used cash in our financing activities of $ 6.4 million and $ 10.6 million , respectively, primarily to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase programs. In the six months ended December 31, 2013 , we utilized $ 6.3 million of cash to repurchase 1,008,126 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $6.23 per share, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. In the six months ended December 31, 2012 , we utilized $ 12.0 million of cash to repurchase shares of our common stock, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 31 Table of Contents Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of December 31, 2013 , we had an aggregate of $35.4 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $35.4 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $8.4 million due in fiscal 2014; $6.8 million due in fiscal 2015; $5.0 million due in fiscal 2016; $4.6 million due in fiscal 2017; $4.3 million due in fiscal 2018; and $6.3 million due thereafter.