Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, predict, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our belief that the networking market is rapidly evolving and has a significant potential opportunity for growth; the capabilities of our technology including our cloud networking platform; our ability to expand our leadership position in the network switch industry, including the areas of mobility, virtualization, network monitoring, cloud computing and cloud networks, and to develop new products and expand our business into new markets such as the campus workspace, enterprise data center and security markets; our ability to satisfy the requirements for networking solutions and to successfully anticipate technological shifts and market needs, innovate new products, rapidly develop new features and applications, and bring them to market in a timely manner including any increased adoption of new technology solutions or consumption models such as commoditized hardware technology or open source networking solutions; our inability to fulfill our end customers orders due to supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies or events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers such as the recent U.S. trade wars or the impact of the global coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic; the demand for our solutions, products and services we offer; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to integrate and realize the benefits of our recent and future acquisitions; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, such as any claims discussed in Legal Proceedings; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new end customers, including large end customers; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of end customers, including large end customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; the growth and buying patterns of our large end customers in which large bulk purchases may or may not occur in certain quarters; our expectations regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business; the deferral or cancellation of orders by end customers, warranty returns or delays in acceptance of our products; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and sell more complex and higher-performance configurations of our products; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our belief that increasing channel leverage will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of customers; our plans to continue to expand our sales force, marketing activities and relationships with channel, technology and system-level partners; our plans to invest in our research and development; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; the benefits realized by our customers in their use of our products and services including lower total cost of ownership; our ability to expand our business domestically and internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal and cyclical trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; economic and industry trends; estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our financial statements; future trading prices of our common stock; our belief that we have adequately reserved for uncertain tax positions; global economic and political conditions that introduce instability into the U.S. economy; the impact of global and domestic tax reform; the impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods; our belief that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and our growth strategies for the foreseeable future; and our ability to identify, complete and realize the benefits of future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Arista Networks pioneered data-driven, cognitive cloud networking for large-scale data center and campus workspace environments. At the core of Arista's platform is an advanced network operating system, Arista's Extensible Operating System ("EOS"), combined with a set of network and Ethernet switching and routing platforms based on merchant silicon. We are a leader in cloud networking solutions delivering high performance, scalability, availability, programmability, automation, and visibility. In recent years, we have brought the operational consistency and principles of cloud networking to the broader enterprise and campus markets with our Cognitive Cloud Networking approach, extending EOS across the enterprise data center and campus wired and wireless workspace. CloudVision, our workload orchestration and automation solution, leverages EOS based network wide data models to deliver turnkey automation and configuration capabilities across data center, wired and wireless workspaces, multi-cloud, and WAN routing use cases. In 2020, we completed the acquisition of Big Switch Networks, a pioneer in network monitoring software and Awake Security, an AI-driven network detection and response (NDR) company. We believe the integration of these capabilities with Aristas network-wide, data-based visibility and telemetry offerings delivers the next generation of operationally efficient network security and visibility solutions. In addition, we continued to expand our 400G product portfolio for both enterprise and cloud customers with the introduction of the next generation 7050X/7060X and 7300X Series switches delivering performance and cost benefits for customers of all sizes as they transition to 400G. We also continue to expand our cognitive campus edge portfolio with the new C-360 Wi-Fi 6E access point to take advantage of the greater capacity, higher bandwidth, and lower latency of Wi-Fi 6E. Since we began shipping our products, we have grown rapidly, and, according to market research, we have achieved the second largest market share in data center Ethernet switch ports and revenue, excluding China. We have been profitable and cash flow positive for each year since 2010. We sell our products through both our direct sales force and our channel partners. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. Our Market Opportunity We compete primarily in the data center switching market for 10 Gigabit Ethernet and above, excluding blade switches. We added advanced routing capabilities to our R-Series switches, which in addition to switching address the Data Center Interconnect (DCI) market, cloud-grade routing, next-generation network edge and parts of the wide area networking routing market. We also compete in the enterprise campus market for 1 Gigabit Ethernet switching and above and in the cloud-managed wireless networking market. In addition, our acquisitions of Big Switch Networks and Awake Security enhance our ability to address a portion of the Network Monitoring and NDR security markets. We believe that cloud computing represents a fundamental shift from traditional legacy network architectures. As organizations of all sizes have moved workloads to the cloud, spending on cloud and next-generation data centers has increased rapidly, while traditional legacy IT spending has grown more slowly. Our Customers As of December 31, 2021, we had delivered our cloud networking solutions to over 8,000 end customers worldwide. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, purchases by Microsoft accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Cloud Networking and Digital Transformation Market Drivers 1 Table of Contents Digital transformation is fundamentally changing the way IT infrastructure is built and how applications are delivered from a cloud environment. In cloud computing, applications are distributed across thousands of servers. These servers are connected with high-speed network switches that, together, form a pool of resources that allows applications to be rapidly deployed and cost-effectively updated. Cloud computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network access to these applications from internet-connected devices including personal computers, tablets, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and smartphones. Nearly all consumer applications today are delivered as cloud services. Enterprise applications are rapidly moving to the cloud as cloud services are easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. Internet leaders like Amazon, Meta Platforms, Google, and Microsoft pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers in order to meet the growing demands of their users, including business customers. Enterprises and service providers around the world are adopting cloud computing technologies in order to achieve similar performance improvements and cost reductions. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can be orders of magnitude higher than typical legacy data center networks. Therefore, the networks in such cloud environments must be architected and built in a new way. We refer to these next-generation data center networks as cloud networks. Cloud networks must deliver high capacity, high availability and predictable performance, and must be programmable to allow integration with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration, and network services. 2 Table of Contents Examples of key secular trends driving network transformation are illustrated below: Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Data Center and Campus Networks We believe that cloud networks and legacy networks are fundamentally different. In a traditional data center, specific applications are installed on a small number of servers and most network traffic is server-to-client, or north-south traffic, which results in perhaps a few terabits/second of aggregate network bandwidth. In the cloud, most network traffic is server-to-server, or east-west traffic. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can exceed 1 petabit/second, orders of magnitude higher than that of typical legacy data center networks. The much larger scale of cloud networks requires much higher network availability since network outages in the cloud are costly to customers. Traditional network switches have evolved, and the features and capabilities of their operating system have expanded over many years without addressing the structural deficiencies of their underlying software architectures, making it difficult to achieve high network switch reliability. Some networking vendors have built products that use proprietary protocols to address the scaling needs of next-generation data centers. However, proprietary protocols are generally disfavored by internet companies or cloud service providers because they create vendor lock-in. Legacy enterprise networks are generally not programmable and, as a result, are extremely difficult to integrate with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration and network services. This lack of integration forces customers to continue to rely on time consuming, error-prone manual processes that may be cost-prohibitive. Traditional enterprise wired and wireless campus networks must cope with an ever-increasing number of endpoint IoT devices for users to be connected anywhere. Campus administrators have sought to address the resulting increased network complexities and bottlenecks through the adoption of a myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and the requirement for workloads, the operational costs of managing these complexities have become prohibitive. Our Cloud Networking Solutions 3 Table of Contents The core of Arista's platform is an advanced network operating system, Arista's EOS, which was designed to be fully programmable, modular and reliable. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to expand our software applications to address the ever-increasing demands of cloud networking, including data driven workflow automation, network visibility, analytics and network detection and response, and has further allowed us to integrate rapidly with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services. An overview of our cloud networking solutions is shown below: The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows: Capacity, Performance and Scalability Our cloud networking platform enables data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We have used active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks. High Availability Our highly modular EOS software architecture was designed to be fault-isolating and self-healing in order to deliver higher availability compared to legacy network operating systems. In addition, our customers can non-disruptively upgrade our switches running in the network using our Smart System Upgrade ("SSU") application, without interrupting the network service. Open and Programmable Our EOS software was purpose-built to offer programmable interfaces throughout all levels of our software. This has allowed us to integrate our cloud networking platform with a wide range of leading third-party applications. For example, we support VMware NSX, OpenConfig/YANG and Microsoft System Center for orchestration and fast provisioning, enabling true workload mobility and automatic provisioning of physical switches. We enable customers, through Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), to write their own scripts to customize and optimize their networks. Workflow Automation 4 Table of Contents Our EOS software enables enterprises to provision networking resources in minutes with no manual intervention through our Zero Touch Provisioning. We also natively support Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third-party management tools. CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation, delivers a turnkey solution to enterprises looking to modernize their data centers for cloud networking. CloudVision extends the same EOS architectural approach across the network for state, topology, monitoring and visibility. This enables enterprises to move to cloud-class automation without needing significant internal development. Finally, EOS embraces the DevOps model, which is a software development method that combines development and operations, to provision and monitor servers, storage and network resources in a unified fashion. Network Visibility Our EOS software provides a set of tools and applications that proactively monitor, detect and notify network managers when network issues arise, delivering real-time data to third-party network performance and security applications to provide detailed application visibility. Our network visibility applications provide real-time insight into the status of the network. Through the integration of DataANalyZer ("DANZ") features native to Arista switches with Big Switchs monitoring software, we provide the DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF). DMF delivers network traffic analysis, data analytics and contextual insights to enterprises looking for network-wide observability. Security Macro-Segmentation Services (MSS TM ) is one of the services enabled via CloudVision. Since CloudVision maintains a network-wide database of all states within the network, as well as direct integration with hypervisor resources like VMware vSphere and NSX, Macro-Segmentation extends the concept of fine-grained inter-hypervisor security to cloud networks by enabling dynamic security and services for physical to virtual workloads, and is a complement to fine-grained security delivered via Micro-Segmentation that is already implemented in the virtual switch of the physical host on which a VM is running. Arista network detection and response (NDR) is an advanced solution that delivers answers, not alerts. By combining artificial intelligence with human expertise, Arista NDR autonomously hunts for both insider and external attacker behaviors, while providing triage, digital forensics and incident response across the entire network campus workspace, data center, IoT/OT and cloud networks Lower Total Cost of Ownership Our cloud networking platform offers architectural and system advantages that provide our customers with cost-effective and highly available cloud networking solutions. We believe our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with our applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our visibility tools provide high levels of visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. As a result, this lowers operational costs because fewer network engineers are needed to operate large networks. Cognitive Campus Workspace Aristas solutions apply the principles of cognitive cloud computing to campus networks, with the intent of disrupting the wasteful, oversubscribed legacy three-tier architecture of access-aggregation-core. As the devices move to more disparate IoT for voice, video, and data traffic, Arista is addressing these trends in the campus network by using cognitive controls and analytics, driven by a single-image operating system that extends across the campus and the data center. Using a cloud-based approach reduces operational costs by incorporating a network that is a seamless end-to-end solution rather than silos of different places in the network. Aristas cognitive campus workspace is a data-driven model coupled with our unified dashboard for wired/wireless edge for next gen zero touch campus deployments. Together, with zero trust security, the cognitive campus drives multifaceted visibility for Internet of things ("IoT") and operational technology ("OT") applications. 5 Table of Contents Our Cognitive Campus Networking solutions are based on three principles: Universal Cloud Network - We offer our Universal Cloud Network as an alternative to brittle, proprietary solutions from legacy vendors. Our Universal Cloud Network is an open, standards-based design focusing on software-driven control principles. Our collapsed Spline approach consolidates traditional campus core and aggregation layers into a simple single tier with high availability. Cognitive Management Plane - There is a void in management plane consistency and a need for data-driven analytics in the campus, as in the data center. We believe that a common model can be applied across both footprints, saving customers operational costs. The Cognitive Management Plane (CMP) is a data-driven repository for the automated actions across network analytics. Securing The Campus - Securing the Campus requires a holistic approach to network segmentation, device compliance and auditing, as well as service integration with our security partners. We deliver these capabilities through EOS, DMF, NDR and CloudVision. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in cognitive cloud networking and next-generation data center and campus workspace Ethernet products: Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform. We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers, and large enterprises including financial services organizations, government agencies and media and entertainment companies, including virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures. Broad and Differentiated Portfolio. Using multiple merchant silicon architectures, we deliver switches, capable of routing, with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency, and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, highly available modular hardware, and reversible cooling options. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements. Single Binary Image Software. The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a forklift upgrade (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure). Rapid Development of New Features and Applications. Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center networking continue to evolve rapidly. Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements. We have developed close working relationships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights about their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers. Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise. Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center and campus networking expertise. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jayshree Ullal, has over 30 years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies. Andy Bechtolsheim, our Founder and Chief Development Officer, was previously a founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems. Kenneth Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer, led the software development effort of EOS. 6 Table of Contents Significant Technology Lead. We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is a key cloud networking software stack that is state-driven and a result of tremendous research and development efforts. Our Products and Technology Our portfolio of products and technology consists of our Core Data center/Cloud Switching Products, our Adjacent Campus and Routing Products and our Network Software and Services. Extensible Operating System The core of our cloud networking platform is our data-driven operating system, EOS, which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. System state and data are stored in EOS and maintained in a highly efficient, centralized system database where data is accessed via an automated publish/subscribe model. This distinct design principle provides module independence, self-healing resiliency, and multi-process software stability. Arista has continued to evolve the principle of EOS State Orientation from a single-system state database, to NetDB where the network device state is centralized across hundreds of systems, to the EOS Network Data Lake (NetDL) where, in addition to network device state, additional data sources have been added including packet data, flow data, and external enrichment data such as DNS naming and BGP Internet performance data. We believe we are extending classic Software-Defined Networking (SDN) principles to software-driven networking control and an AI-enabled holistic view with NetDL, while building on Aristas core pillars of reliability, open standards, and programmability. EOS Attributes The modular and programmable architecture of EOS enables us to offer a set of attributes, capabilities and features that are essential for cloud networking and next-generation data centers. High Availability EOS is self-healing in the sense that individual processes can be restarted without impacting application traffic. This architectural design principle supports self-healing resiliency in our software, easier software maintenance and module independence, higher software quality overall, and faster time-to-market for new features that customers require. Programmable at All Layers EOS is programmable at all layers from the Linux kernel to switch configuration, provisioning, automation and detailed monitoring of the network. Public cloud providers have leveraged tools such as the EOS Software Development Kit (SDK) and eAPI to implement fully customized infrastructure automation solutions. Workflow Visibility Through EOS, we have developed a wide range of applications available to our customers for purchase as additional licenses that enable enhanced network monitoring and visibility without requiring additional external monitoring devices. This includes (i) DANZ, which provides access to raw network data for analysis by security, troubleshooting and performance management tools, (ii) Latency/loss ANalyZer (LANZ), which provides access to internal network performance loads and packet loss and latency occurring at the microsecond level, (iii) Network Telemetry, which provides network state information including correlations with the dynamic state of the systems operating on the network such as Hypervisors and, distributed job controls, and (iv) Network Tracers, which provide active integration and diagnostics for various workload conditions dependent upon network performance. Network Automation EOS supports Puppet, Chef and Ansible, which enable automatic network configuration in the same manner as servers and storage. In addition, EOS provides tools that greatly reduce network operational costs. Core Datacenter/Cloud 7 Table of Contents We offer one of the broadest product lines of datacenter 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet switches in the industry, comprising of 7000 Series, 7130 Series, 7150 Series, 7160 Series, 7170 Series, 7280 Series, 7500 Series and 7800 Series. We deliver switching platforms with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency. We have also innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. Adjacent Campus and Routing Cognitive Campus Switching and Routing Our adjacent products include our Cognitive Campus switching products such as our 720XP fixed PoE switches, 750 modular PoE switches and 7300X3 spline switches, as well as our Universal Spine and Leaf Routing products such as our 7020R fixed routers, 7280R fixed routers, 7368X4 modular router, 7500R modular routers and 7800R modular routers. Cognitive WiFi Cognitive WiFi consists of our access point solutions (APs) that are tailored for a controller-less wireless network. These APs are available in disaggregated options harnessing the power of cloud, machine learning and cognitive networking. By integrating with CloudVision, Cognitive WiFi is based on a similar CMP model for cognitive analytics unifying the operational experience across wired and wireless. It enhances real-time insight into the experience of WiFi clients to connect and utilize the network. Cognitive WiFi also includes a suite of WiFi Tracer tools for wireless security, reachability and network health diagnostics. Networking Software and Services CloudVision CloudVision is our network management plane solution for workload orchestration and workflow automation, which delivers a turnkey solution for cloud networking. CloudVisions abstraction of the physical network to a broader, network-wide perspective provides a simplified approach for consistent network operations across network domains, including data center, campus wired and wireless, routing interconnect, and multi-cloud networks. CloudVision highlights include: Centralized representation of distributed state based on Arista's Data Lake (NetDL), allowing for a single point of integration and network-wide visibility and analytics; Controller-agnostic support for physical and virtual workload orchestration through open APIs; Turn-key automation for zero touch provisioning, configuration management and network-wide upgrades and rollback; Compliance dashboard for security, audit and patch management; Cognitive AI/ML, driven by Arista's Autonomous Virtual Assist ("AVA") for dynamic insights and recommendations, built on a modern approach of real-time streaming for telemetry and as a replacement for legacy polling per device; Granular visibility and historical troubleshooting with predictive insights across the unified edge wired and wireless networks, including IoTvision, and finally Multi-domain segmentation for the zero trust enterprise, enabling macro-segmentation services (MSS) for an open and scalable approach for network policy management and with dynamic integrations into security management systems from Aristas security ecosystem partners. DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF) DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF) is a next-generation network packet broker (NPB) designed for pervasive, organization-wide network observability and security visibility, enabling IT to deliver multi-tenant monitoring-as-a-service. Leveraging Arista's high-performance and versatile 1G/10G/25G, 40G/100G and 400G Ethernet switch platforms with DMF, IT operators can pervasively monitor all user, device/IoT and application traffic (north-south and east-west) by gaining complete visibility into physical, virtual and container environments. DMF switch licenses are procured as subscription software. Additionally, DMFs advanced services include deep hop-by-hop visibility, predictive analytics, contextual insights and scale-out packet capture integrated through a single dashboard to provide simplified network performance monitoring (NPM) and SecMon workflows for real-time and historical context. For enterprises, service providers and cloud providers, DMF provides a one-stop network observability solution for production data centers, enterprise campus/branch and 4G/5G mobile networks. 8 Table of Contents Arista Network Detection and Response (NDR) The AI-driven Security Platform, driven by Arista's Autonomous Virtual Assist ("AVA"), deeply analyzes billions of network communications to autonomously discover, profile and classify every device, user and application across any network. Using a multi-dimensional ensemble machine learning approach, Arista NDR then models complex adversarial behaviors and detects threats by connecting the dots across entities, time, protocols and attack stages. By combining artificial intelligence with human expertise, Arista NDR hunts for both insider and external attacker behaviors, while providing triage, digital forensics and incident response across the entire network. CloudEOS CloudEOS is Aristas multi-cloud and cloud-native networking solution enabling a highly secure and reliable networking experience with consistent segmentation, telemetry, provisioning and troubleshooting for the entire enterprise. It can be deployed across the enterprise edge, WAN, campus workspace, data center, on-premises Kubernetes clusters, and multiple public and private clouds. CloudEOS provides multi-cloud connectivity across the entire enterprise cloud environment with high-performance virtual and container-based instances of EOS software that simplify network operations and integrate with declarative cloud provisioning toolchains like Terraform, Ansible, and other popular CloudOps and DevOps tools. CloudEOS is designed for consumption on Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google public clouds via their marketplace and service catalogs, and it is also available as a cloud-native instance for deployment in Kubernetes clusters. With CloudEOS and CloudVision, customers can integrate their cloud network deployments with the elasticity and automation of the public cloud, private cloud and cloud native platforms. Arista A-Care Services We have designed our customer support offerings, Arista A-Care Services, to provide our customers with high levels of support. Our global team of support engineers engages directly with client IT teams and is available at all times over e-mail, by phone or through our website. We offer multiple service options that allow our customers to select the product replacement service level that best meets their needs. We stock spare parts in over 200 locations around the world through our third-party logistics suppliers. All of our service options include unlimited access to bug-fixes, new-feature-releases, online case management and our community forums. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products through our direct sales force and in partnership with our channel partners, including distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators and original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") partners. We also sell in conjunction with various technology partners. To facilitate channel coordination and increase productivity, we have created a partner program, the Arista Partner Program, to engage partners who provide value-added services and extend our reach into the marketplace. Authorized training partners perform technical training of our channel partners and end customers. Our partners commonly receive an order from an end customer prior to placing an order with us, and we confirm the identification of the end customer prior to accepting such orders. Our partners generally do not stock inventory received from us. Our sales organization is supported by systems engineers with deep technical expertise and responsibility for pre-sales technical support and solutions engineering for our end customers, systems integrators, OEMs, and channel partners. A pool of shared channel sales and marketing representatives also supports these teams. Each sales team is responsible for a geographical territory, has responsibility for a number of major direct end-customer accounts or has assigned accounts in a specific vertical market. Our marketing activities consist primarily of technology conferences, web marketing, trade shows, product demonstrations, seminars and events, public relations, analyst relations, demand generation and direct marketing to build our brand, increase end-customer awareness, communicate our product advantages and generate qualified leads for our field sales force and channel partners. Seasonality 9 Table of Contents Our rapid historical growth may have reduced the impact of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. As our increasing size may cause our growth rate to slow, seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We operate on a December 31st year-end and have typically experienced higher sequential product revenue growth in the fourth quarter, followed by flat-to-declining sequential growth in the first quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including the procurement, budgeting and deployment cycles of many of our end customers. In addition, the current industry-wide supply chain shortages and extended lead times and their impact on our ability to ship products to our customers in a timely manner may disrupt typical seasonal trends. Research and Development We believe our future success depends on our ability to develop new products and features that address the needs of our end customers. Our in-house engineering personnel are responsible for the development, quality, documentation, support and release of our products. We plan to continue to invest in resources to conduct our research and development efforts. Manufacturing We subcontract the manufacturing of all of our products to various contract manufacturers. Our primary manufacturing partners are Jabil Circuit and Sanmina Corporation. This approach allows us to reduce our costs, manufacturing overhead and inventory position and allows us to adjust more quickly to changing end-customer demand. We require all of our manufacturing locations to be ISO-9001 certified. We have four direct fulfillment facilities worldwide to hold finished goods inventory, perform product transformations, and install our EOS software to ship to customers and partners. Our contract manufacturing partners procure the majority of the components needed to build our products and assemble our products according to our design specifications. This allows us to leverage the purchasing power of our contract manufacturing partners. We retain complete control over the bill of materials, test procedures and quality assurance programs. Our personnel work closely with our partners and review on an ongoing basis forecasts, inventory levels, processes, capacity, yields and overall quality. Our contract manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates of future demand for our products based upon historical trends and analyses from our sales and product management functions as adjusted for overall market conditions. For example, current industry-wide supply chain shortages have resulted in extended lead times for components and have required us to extend the time horizon of our demand forecasts. Our products rely on key components, including merchant silicon, integrated circuit components and power supplies purchased from a limited number of suppliers, including certain sole source providers. We also expect to see increased consolidation among our component suppliers. Generally, neither we nor our contract manufacturers have a written agreement with these component providers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products, nor do we have exclusive rights to such key components, and our suppliers could suffer shortages, delay shipments, prioritize shipments to other vendors, increase prices or cease manufacturing such products or selling them to us at any time. The supply of components may also be adversely affected by geopolitical conditions such as international trade wars like the U.S. trade war with China and the impact of public health epidemics like the coronavirus. Our product development efforts also depend upon continued collaboration with our key suppliers, including our merchant silicon vendors such as Broadcom and Intel. As we develop our product roadmap and continue to expand our relationships with these and other merchant silicon vendors, it is critical that we work in tandem with our key merchant silicon vendors to ensure that their silicon includes improved features and that our products take advantage of such improved features. This enables us to focus our research and development resources on software core competencies and to leverage the investments made by merchant silicon vendors to achieve cost-effective solutions. Once the completed products are manufactured and tested, our contract manufacturing partners ship them to various direct fulfillment facilities in the United States, the Netherlands and Singapore for final configuration, 10 Table of Contents quality-control inspection and shipment to our distribution partners and end customers. After the products are shipped to our end customers, our products are installed by the end customers or by third-party service providers such as system integrators or value-added resellers on their behalf. Competition The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly-changing technology, changing end-customer needs, evolving industry standards, frequent introductions of new products and services and industry consolidation. We expect competition to intensify in the future as the market for cloud networking expands and existing competitors and new market entrants introduce new products or enhance existing products. The data center and campus networking markets have been historically dominated by Cisco, with competition also coming from other large network equipment and system vendors, including Extreme Networks, Dell/EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Juniper Networks. Most of our competitors and some strategic alliance partners have made acquisitions and/or have entered into or extended partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive product lines, including cloud networking solutions. For example, Broadcom acquired Brocade Communications Systems, Extreme Networks purchased certain data center networking assets from Broadcom/Brocade and Avaya as well as Aerohive Networks, Dell acquired EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise acquired Aruba Networks and Juniper Networks acquired Mist Systems. We also face competition from other companies and new market entrants, current technology partners and end customers who may acquire or develop network switches and cloud service solutions for internal use and/or to broaden their portfolio of products to market and sell to customers. Some of these competitors are developing networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, or white box hardware, particularly where an end customers network strategy seeks to emphasize deployment of such product offerings or adopt a disaggregated approach to the procurement of hardware and software. End customers may also increase their adoption of networking solutions based upon open-source network operating systems that may be provided for free and used either on white box or proprietary hardware. The entrance of new competitors into our markets or the increased adoption of these new technology solutions or consumption models may cause downward pricing pressures, result in lost sales or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In the NDR market, our Arista NDR offerings compete with other network security vendors including Cisco, DarkTrace, and ExtraHop. Lastly, in the network packet broker (NPB) market, Arista DANZ Monitoring Fabric competes with Gigamon, Keysight, and other network monitoring software providers. Our relationships with our strategic alliance partners or suppliers may also shift as industry dynamics change. If strategic alliance partners acquire or develop competitive products or services, our relationship with those partners may be adversely impacted, which could lead to more variability to our results of operations and impact the pricing of our solutions. The principal competitive factors applicable to our products include: breadth of product offerings and features; reliability and product quality; ease of use; pricing; total cost of ownership, including automation, monitoring and integration costs; performance and scale; programmability and extensibility; interoperability with other products; 11 Table of Contents ability to be bundled with other vendor offerings; and quality of service, support and fulfillment. We believe our products compete favorably with respect to these factors. Our EOS software offers high reliability, integrates with existing network protocols and is open and programmable. We believe the combination of EOS, a set of network applications and our 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet platforms make our offering highly competitive for both cloud and enterprise data centers. However, many of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners and end customers, greater access to larger end-customer bases, greater end-customer support resources, greater manufacturing resources, the ability to leverage their sales efforts across a broader portfolio of products, the ability to leverage purchasing power when purchasing subcomponents, the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services, the ability to develop their own silicon chips, the ability to set more aggressive pricing policies, lower labor and development costs, greater resources to make acquisitions, larger intellectual property portfolios and substantially greater financial, technical, research and development or other resources. In addition, in the current industry-wide supply constrained environment, the ability to source components and provide customers with product in a timely manner can result in a significant competitive advantage. While we have extended our demand planning horizons and increased our component purchase commitments, there is no guarantee that suppliers will meet their commitments or that ultimate customer demand will directly match our demand forecasts. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, end customers, resellers, systems integrators, manufacturers, and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We file U.S and foreign patent applications to protect our intellectual property and believe that the duration of our issued patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Patents generally have a duration of twenty years from filing. The remaining duration on the individual patents in our patent portfolio varies. We cannot assure that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of valuable breadth or applicability. In addition, any patents that may be issued may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open-source software and other software available on commercially-reasonable terms. We own a number of trademarks in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, including Arista, EOS, CloudVision, CloudStream, CVP, CVX, Health Tracer, MapReduce Tracer, Path Tracer, MXP, MSS, RAIL, Score, SPLINE, SuperSpine, SSU, FlexRoute, NetRollBack, NetDB, OSFP, AlgoMatch, Macro-Segmentation and Macro-Segmentation Service. We control access to and use of our software, technology and other proprietary information through internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, end customers and partners. Our software is protected by U.S. and international copyright, patent and trade secret laws. Despite our efforts to protect our software, technology and other proprietary information, unauthorized parties may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our software, technology and other proprietary information. In addition, we intend to expand our international operations, and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become more successful, we believe that competitors will be more likely to try to develop products that are similar to ours and that may infringe our proprietary rights. It may also be more likely that competitors or other third parties will claim that our products infringe their proprietary rights. In particular, large and established companies in our industry have extensive patent portfolios and are regularly involved in both offensive and defensive litigation. From time to time, third parties, including certain of these large companies and non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark and 12 Table of Contents other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end customers, whom our standard license and other agreements obligate us to indemnify against such claims. Successful claims of infringement by a third-party, if any, could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services, require us to expend time and money to develop non-infringing solutions or force us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees. We cannot assure that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, upon any third-party patents or other proprietary rights. Human Capital Management At Arista, we seek to maintain an environment that is open, diverse and inclusive, and where our people feel valued, included and accountable. One of Aristas key principles is always doing the right thing for our employees. We are committed to maintaining the highest level of professional and ethical standards in the conduct of our business around the world. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 2,993 full-time employees worldwide. None of our employees are represented by unions. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. Diversity and Equal Employment We seek to maintain an environment that is open, diverse and inclusive, and where our employees feel valued. We believe that diverse and inclusive teams enhance individual and company performance and help us attract and retain the best talent available. We strive to build an inclusive culture that encourages, supports and celebrates the diverse voices of our employees. As part of the Arista way, we believe in treating peers with respect, mentoring individuals and developing teams for overall success. We are proud to be an S&P 500 company with both a female CEO and CFO. We also actively promote the hiring of female engineers by supporting periodic technology sessions for female engineers. In addition, we support under-represented employee affinity organizations and actively recruit from under-represented universities and professional societies. Arista affirms the principle of equal employment opportunity without regard to any protected characteristic, including but not limited to race, religion, national origin, color, gender, age, disability, pregnancy, marital status, ancestry, military status or sexual orientation. We practice and promote such policies in all locations as appropriate under applicable law. We affirm this principle of freedom from discrimination in all aspects of the employment relationship from recruitment and hiring, through performance evaluations, compensation and promotions. At Arista, we believe that all employees should be treated with dignity and respect. Health and Safety We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our employees, visitors, and the public. Our policy is to maintain our facilities and run our business operations in a manner that does not jeopardize the occupational health and safety of employees. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Arista asked its employees to work from home with limited exceptions. Essential workers have been given access to our facilities as may be permitted under applicable laws after instituting additional health and safety measures to reduce the risk of COVID-19. We work to provide safe working environments in our operations. Compensation and Benefits Arista provides competitive and comprehensive benefit packages that are designed to help employees make the best decisions for themselves, their family and their lifestyle. Our compensation committee provides oversight of our compensation policies, plans, benefit programs and overall compensation philosophy. Along with Aristas traditional healthcare benefits, Arista has created a detailed injury and illness prevention program to better protect employees from occupational risks of injury or illness. Arista periodically hosts wellness days, whose purpose is to raise awareness on health issues, increase education on preventive 13 Table of Contents medicine and available services and shift employee behavior through interactive activities and live presentations. We also maintain a community engagement program, which provides opportunities for our employees to engage in community service. Available Information Our website is located at www.arista.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.arista.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available free of charge on the Investors portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Webcasts of our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community are on our investor relations website. Additionally, we announce investor information, including news and commentary about our business and financial performance, SEC filings, notices of investor events, and our press and earnings releases, on our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Governance. The contents of our websites, or information that can be accessed through our websites, are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry the COVID-19 pandemic which has led, among other things, to manufacturing disruptions, supply chain shortages and unpredictable product demand and supply, increased lead times, extended demand planning horizons and increased purchase commitments, all of which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business; the networking market is rapidly evolving; failure to successfully pursue new products and services and expand into adjacent markets could adversely affect our business; our revenue and revenue growth may decline; our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period; our gross margins vary and may be adversely affected by an increase in costs including component, shipping and other product costs; shipment delays could cause revenue to fall; some key components in our products come from sole or limited sources of supply and increases the risk of supply shortages, delays, extended lead times or costs, particularly in the current industry-wide supply constrained environment; adverse economic conditions and reduced information technology and network infrastructure spending may adversely affect our business; we face intense competition and industry consolidation; we are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations; we face risks associated with the acquisition and integration of complementary companies, products or technologies; seasonal fluctuations impact revenue; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business; failure to raise any needed capital on favorable terms could harm our business. Risks Related to Customers and Sales if we are unable to attract new large customers or sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected; large purchases by a limited number of customers represent a substantial portion of our revenue; if we are unable to increase market awareness of our products, our revenue may not continue to grow or may decline; some large customers require more favorable terms; sales of our switches generate most of our product revenue; sales prices of our products and services may decrease; sales cycle can be long and unpredictable; inability to offer high quality support and services could adversely affect our business; declines in maintenance renewals by customers could harm our business; indemnification provisions under sales contracts could expose us to losses; we rely on distributors, systems integrators and resellers to sell our products; sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks and challenges; we are exposed to credit risk of channel partners and customers. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Products and Services product quality problems, defects, errors or vulnerabilities could harm our business; failure to anticipate technological shifts could harm our business; our products must interoperate with operating systems, software and hardware developed by others. Risks Related to Supply Chain and Manufacturing managing the supply of our products and product components is complex; we depend on third-party manufacturers to build our products; future sales forecasts may be materially inaccurate which could result in incorrect levels of inventory and purchase commitments. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights assertions by third parties of intellectual property infringement could harm our business; failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position; we rely on the availability of licenses to third-party software and other intellectual property; failure to comply with open-source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products; risk that our competitors could develop products that are similar to or better than ours because we provide access to our software and selected source code to certain partners, which creates additional risks. Risks Related to Litigation we may become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Privacy defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our security network products, failure of our products to detect security breaches or incidents, misuse of our products or risks of product liability could harm our business; breaches of our cybersecurity systems or other security breaches or incidents could harm our business and our products and result in regulatory fines, required changes to our data handling processes or systems, and liability for damages to affected data subjects. Risks Related to Accounting, Compliance, Regulation and Tax failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting; if our critical accounting estimates are based on incorrect assumptions, our results of operations could fall below analyst and investor expectations and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock; enhanced U.S. tax, tariff, import/export restrictions or other trade barriers may negatively affect our business; changes in our effective tax rate or new tax laws could adversely affect our results; failure to comply with government laws and regulations could harm our business; we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability for violations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock the trading price of our common stock is volatile and the value of your investment could decline; any reduction or discontinuance of our stock repurchase programs could cause the market price of our common stock to decline; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could reduce the market price of our common stock; insiders have substantial control over us; our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. General Risks if we are unable to hire, retain and train personnel and senior management, our business could suffer; natural disasters, terrorism and other catastrophic events could harm our business; we have not paid dividends and do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic, which has led, among other things, to manufacturing disruptions, supply chain shortages and unpredictable product demand and supply, extended demand planning horizons and increased purchase commitments, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on the business operations of our company and our customers, partners, manufacturers, suppliers, distribution fulfillment centers and service depots. The vast majority of our employees continue to work from home, and this remote model could present operational and other workplace challenges over time that may affect our business. We have also experienced, and may continue to experience, manufacturing and supply chain disruptions, components shortages, increased component lead times, unpredictability of supply, logistic challenges and increased costs. Our contract manufacturers in Malaysia, Mexico and the United States are impacted by the pandemic and have experienced shelter in place orders, workforce disruptions, delays and increased costs for production, transit and the import and export of products. While our contract manufacturers have made progress to minimize disruptions caused by COVID-19, governments are continuing to impose restrictions on access as a result of COVID-19 variants, which has negatively impacted the staffing and product output of our contract manufacturers. Our contract manufacturers activities are further limited by supply constraints caused by disruptions in the manufacturing activities of our suppliers. Similar to our manufacturing facilities, our direct fulfillment centers and service depots continue to operate with varying degrees of government restriction on access, which can materially impact our ability to ship products or provide support services to our customers. As a result of COVID-19 related manufacturing disruptions, the lead times for our products have increased and our supply chain costs have increased which has and may continue to adversely impact our gross margins. In addition, we have had to increase our demand planning horizon to address supply chain shortages, combined with increased component lead times and unpredictability of supply, resulting in significant increases to our purchase commitments and component buffer inventories. There is however no guarantee that suppliers will meet their commitments or that customers' actual demand will directly match our demand forecasts and this has increased the risk of future excess and obsolete inventory and could have a negative impact on our gross margins. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, we have experienced and may continue to experience additional risks including: more manufacturing disruptions and supply shortages, including shortages in semiconductors; increased lead times for our products including longer lead times for component parts incorporated into our products which, in turn, can increase the risk of order cancellations; reduced capacity and output at factories and factory closures; disruptions in logistics which impact the movement of components and finished products; overall increased demand for materials which could result in a limited or unpredictable supply of materials and components that are incorporated in our products; delays in product shipments and limits on our ability to provide in-person support services to customers; and increased risk of future excess and obsolete inventory as we extend our demand planning horizon and increase our purchase commitments and our inventory buffers. The COVID-19 pandemic could limit our ability to add new customers and cause sales disruptions, order cancellations, longer upgrade cycles by customers for network equipment and overall lower demand for our products and services. Customers may purchase products in advance of their internal demand which could result in lower purchases in subsequent quarters. In addition, given supply chain constraints, customers may give us more optimistic indications about prospective purchases which could result in lower than expected orders or cancellations of orders. We could also face increased risk of customer defaults and delays in payment. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the global economy and financial markets, which may result in an extended economic slowdown or a global recession that could adversely impact our business. Due to the uncertainty around the duration of the pandemic, the impact of new variants of 17 Table of Contents COVID-19, the availability, distribution and effectiveness of vaccines and treatments for COVID-19 around the world, the imposition of public safety measures, the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and the impact of COVID-19 on our customers, partners, contract manufacturers and supply chain, we are unable to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations and financial performance. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it, may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section. The networking market is rapidly evolving. If this market does not evolve as we anticipate or our target end customers do not adopt our networking solutions, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the growth and evolution of the networking market. The market demand for networking solutions has increased in recent years as end customers have deployed larger, more sophisticated networks and have increased the use of virtualization and cloud computing. The continued growth of this market will be dependent upon many factors including but not limited to the adoption of and demand for our end customers products and services, the expansion, evolution and build out of our end customers networks, the capacity utilization of existing network infrastructures, changes in the technological requirements for the products and services to be deployed in these networks, the amount and mix of capital spending by our end customers, the development of network switches and cloud service solutions by our large end customers for internal use, the financial performance and prospects of our end customers, the availability of capital resources to our end customers, changes in government regulation that could impact networking business models including those regulations related to cybersecurity, privacy, data protection and net neutrality, our ability to provide networking solutions that address the needs of end customers more effectively and economically than those of other competitors or existing technologies and general economic conditions, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. If the networking solutions market does not develop in the way we anticipate or otherwise experiences a slow-down, if our solutions do not offer benefits compared to competing networking products or if end customers do not recognize the benefits that our solutions provide, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We pursue new product and service offerings and expand into adjacent markets, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We have made substantial investments to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and research and development efforts to expand our product offerings and maintain our revenue growth. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, if we fail to introduce products and services that meet market demand, or if we do not successfully expand into adjacent markets, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, as we introduce our 400 GbE and 800 GbE products, our ability to continue to maintain our competitive position with our customers will depend on our ability to deliver these new products in a timely manner and our customers' acceptance of these products. In addition, the evaluation, testing and qualification of our new products by our customers may be lengthy and may require contractual acceptance clauses, which could delay our revenue recognition and impact our revenue and deferred revenue balances. Additionally, from time to time, we invest in expansion into adjacent markets, including campus switching, WiFi networking and network security markets. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our current offerings, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in these markets, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Expanding our services in existing and new markets and increasing the depth and breadth of our presence imposes significant burdens on our marketing, compliance, and other administrative and managerial resources. Our plan to expand and deepen our market share in our existing markets and possibly expand into additional markets is subject to a variety of risks and challenges. Our success in these new markets depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to our ability to develop new products, new product features and services that address the customer requirements for these markets, attract a customer base in markets in which we have less experience, compete with new and existing competitors in these adjacent markets, and gain market acceptance of our new products. Developing our products is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. We expect to continue to invest heavily in software development in order to expand the capabilities of our cloud networking platform and introduce new products and features. We expect that our results of operations will be impacted by the timing and size of these investments. These investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, future market share gains may take longer than planned and cause us to incur significant costs. If we are unable to attract new large end customers or to sell additional products and services to our existing end customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected and our revenue could decrease. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our revenue and our revenue growth rates are volatile and may decline. Our revenue growth rate in previous periods may not be indicative of our future performance. We have experienced annual revenue growth rates of 27.2%, -3.9%, 12.1%, and 30.7% in 2021, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. In the future, our revenue growth rates may continue to be volatile as we become more penetrated in our existing customer base and product markets, and as we look to enter and expand into new markets. In addition, COVID-19 related disruptions may cause delays in product shipments or cancellation of orders by end customers, and could have a negative impact on demand from our customers in future periods, and on our ability to add new customers. Other factors may also contribute to declines in our growth rates, including changes in demand for our products and services, particularly from our large end customers, changes in capital spending by our large end customers, increased competition, price sensitivities from our customers to increases in our pricing, our ability to successfully manage our expansion or continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, the maturation of our business, general economic and international trade conditions, and our ability to be successful in adjacent markets, such as campus switching, WiFi networking markets and network security markets. For example, we have experienced volatility in demand from certain of our large end customers. Overall demand from larger customers may decline in future periods, which would impact our future revenue growth. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected and our stock price could be volatile. Our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period and be unpredictable and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued financial guidance, or if any forward-looking financial guidance does not meet the expectation of analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that this trend will continue. As a result, you should not rely upon our past financial results for any period as indicators of future performance. Our results of operations in any given period can be influenced by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the disruption caused by COVID-19 and the government restrictions in response to the pandemic; our inability to fulfill our end customers orders or the cancellation of orders by our end customers due to the unavailability or unpredictable supply of inventory, supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies, manufacturing disruptions or other events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers; deferral, reduction or cancellation of orders from end customers, due to long lead times, announcements by us or other competitors of new products or product enhancements, warranty returns or other factors; our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new end customers, including large end customers; the budgeting, sales, implementation and refresh cycles, purchasing practices and buying patterns of end customers, including large end customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts and who may or may not make large bulk purchases in certain quarters or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; changes in the growth rate of existing or new customers, including large end customers and service providers, changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs, and changes in growth rates of the networking market; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation; increased expenses resulting from increases in material or component costs and production costs including as a result of shortages in supply for semiconductors or the tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other 19 Table of Contents countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods, including the tariffs implemented by the U.S. government on various imports from China; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility beyond the first two quarters into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; the inclusion of any acceptance provisions in our customer contracts or any delays in acceptance of those products; the actual or rumored timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end customers; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; our ability to increase the size and production of our sales or distribution channel, or any disruption in, or termination of, our sales or distribution channels; decisions by potential end customers to purchase our networking solutions from larger, more established vendors, white box vendors or their primary network equipment vendors; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our end customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, or confronting our key suppliers, including our sole source suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; seasonality or cyclical fluctuations in our markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; our overall effective tax rate, including impacts caused by any reorganization in our corporate structure, any changes in our valuation allowance for domestic deferred tax assets and any new legislation or regulatory developments; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as an increasing portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; general economic conditions, both domestically and in foreign markets, and disruptions in our business and the markets due to, among other things, health epidemics, natural disasters, terrorism and other catastrophic events including international trade wars involving the U.S. and China and the political tensions in Russia, Europe and Asia; increases in cybersecurity threats, including security threats from state sponsors; and other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of several of the factors described above may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other results of operations and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our revenue, gross margins, results of operations or other expectations contained in any forward looking financial guidance we have issued or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such guidance or expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. In the past, we have failed to meet investor financial expectations and the market price of our common stock declined. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and may be adversely affected by numerous factors. 20 Table of Contents We expect our gross margins to vary over time and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including but not limited to changes in end-customer, geographic or product mix, increased price competition, introduction of new products and new business models including the sale and delivery of more software and subscription solutions, increases in material or component costs and production costs including as a result of shortages in supply for semiconductors and other components, entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, entry in markets with different pricing and cost structures, pricing discounts given to customers, costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, higher levels of excess or obsolete inventory and inventory holding charges as a result of extended demand planning horizons due to industry-wide supply shortage, changes in shipment volumes, the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals, increased costs arising from tariffs, increased costs arising from epidemics, changes in distribution channels, increased warranty costs, and our ability to execute our operating plans. In addition, inflationary pressures and shortages have increased and we expect will continue to increase costs for certain materials, components, supplies and services. If these effects continue for a prolonged period or result in sustained economic stress or recession, many of the risk factors identified in this risk factors section could be heightened. We determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter to quarter. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Interruptions or delays in shipments could cause our revenue for the applicable period to fall below expected levels. We have been and could continue to be subject to manufacturing disruptions and supply chain delays. This places significant pressure on supply chain management, manufacturing, inventory and quality control management, shipping and trade compliance to ensure that we have properly forecasted supply purchasing, manufacturing capacity, inventory and quality compliance and logistics. A significant interruption in these critical functions could result in delayed order fulfillment, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Because some of the components in our products come from sole or limited sources of supply, we have increased our purchase commitments and are susceptible to supply shortages, extended lead times or supply changes, which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our end customers and may result in the loss of sales and end customers. Our products rely on components, including merchant silicon chips, integrated circuit components, printed circuit boards, connectors, custom-tooled sheet metal and power supplies that we purchase or our contract manufacturers purchase on our behalf from a limited number of suppliers, including certain sole source providers. Generally, we do not have guaranteed supply contracts with our component suppliers, and our suppliers could suffer shortages, longer lead times, delay shipments, prioritize shipments to other vendors, decommit orders, increase prices or cease manufacturing such products or selling them to us at any time. Supply of these components world-wide are being adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as industry consolidation and geopolitical conditions such as international trade wars like the U.S. trade war with China and increased political tensions in Russia, Europe or Asia. Such shortages, increased component lead times, reduced allocations of components and decommitments of orders have, and could continue to, result in increased component prices, fewer sourcing options, unpredictability of supply, manufacturing disruptions and increased product lead times. In the past, we have also experienced shortages in inventory for dynamic random access memory integrated circuits, semiconductors and delayed releases of the next generation of chipset, which delayed our production and/or the release of our new products. In addition, we have experienced an increase in cost of certain components. Although we have increased our purchase commitments to support long-term customer demand, if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these components on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain alternative sources for these components, shipments of our products could be delayed or halted entirely or we may be required to redesign our products. Any of these events could result in a cancellation of orders, lost sales, reduced gross margins or damage to our end customer relationships, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, if our suppliers do not meet their commitments or actual demand does not directly match with our demand forecasts, it could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which we would be required to write down to its estimated realizable value, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. Our reliance on component suppliers also yields the potential for the infringement or misappropriation of third-party intellectual property rights due to the incorporation of such components into our products. We may not be indemnified by such component suppliers for such infringement or misappropriation claims. Any litigation for which we do 21 Table of Contents not receive indemnification could require us to incur significant legal expenses in defending against such claims or require us to pay substantial royalty payments or settlement amounts that would not be reimbursed by our component suppliers. Our product development efforts are also dependent upon the success of our continued collaboration with our key merchant silicon vendors such as Broadcom and Intel. As we develop our product roadmap, we select specific merchant silicon from these vendors for each new product. It is critical that we work in tandem with these vendors to ensure that their silicon includes improved features, that our products take advantage of such improved features, and that such vendors are able to supply us with sufficient quantities on commercially reasonable term to meet customer demand. Reliance on these relationships allows us to focus our research and development resources on our software core competencies while leveraging their investments and expertise. The merchant silicon vendors may not be successful in continuing to innovate, meet deadlines for the release of their products or produce a sufficient supply of their products. Moreover, these vendors may not collaborate with us or may become competitive with us by selling merchant silicon for white boxes or other products to our customers. If our key merchant silicon vendors do not continue to innovate, if there are delays in the release of their products or supply shortages, if they no longer collaborate in such fashion or if such merchant silicon is not offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, our products may become less competitive, our own product launches could be delayed or we may be required to redesign our products to incorporate alternative merchant silicon, which could result in lost sales, reduce gross margins, damage to our customer relationships or otherwise have a material effect on revenue and business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the event of a shortage or supply interruption from our component suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. Further, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to end customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In addition, our component suppliers change their selling prices frequently in response to market trends, including industry-wide increases in demand, and because we do not have contracts with these suppliers or guaranteed pricing, we are susceptible to availability or price fluctuations related to raw materials and components. If we are unable to pass component price increases along to our end customers or maintain stable pricing, our gross margins could be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology and network infrastructure spending may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, network connectivity and access to data and applications. Weak domestic or global economic conditions, fear or anticipation of such conditions, international trade disputes, global pandemics, or a reduction in information technology and network infrastructure spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, and reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. For example, the global macroeconomic environment could be negatively affected by, among other things, the COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics, instability in global economic markets, increased U.S. trade tariffs and trade disputes between the U.S., China and other countries, increased political tensions in Europe and Asia, instability in the global credit markets, the impact and uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, including the instability in the geopolitical environment as a result of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union ("EU"), the threat of potential Russian invasion of Ukraine, political tensions between Taiwan and China, political demonstrations, and foreign governmental debt concerns. Such challenges have caused, and are likely to continue to cause, uncertainty and instability in local economies and in global financial markets. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused business disruptions around the world and may result in customers delaying or canceling capital expenditures on information technology and network infrastructure, which may affect the overall demand for our products. In light of the manufacturing disruptions and supply chain constraints caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, end customers may also be placing orders in advance of demand to ensure supply. Continuing or worsening economic instability could result in a cancellation of such orders or otherwise adversely affect spending for IT, network infrastructure, systems and tools. A downturn may also significantly affect financing markets, the availability of capital and the terms and conditions of financing arrangements, including the overall cost of financing as well as the financial health or creditworthiness of our end customers. Circumstances may arise in which we need, or desire, to raise additional capital, and such capital may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face intense competition, especially from larger, well-established companies and industry consolidation may lead to further increased competition, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 Table of Contents The markets in which we compete, including the markets for data center, campus networking and network security, are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and our failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The data center and campus networking markets have been historically dominated by Cisco, with competition also coming from other large network equipment and system vendors, including Extreme Networks, Dell/EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Juniper Networks. Most of our competitors and some strategic alliance partners have made acquisitions and/or have entered into or extended partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive product lines, including cloud networking solutions and network security. For example, Cisco acquired Acacia Communications, Broadcom acquired Brocade Communications Systems, Extreme Networks purchased certain data center networking assets from Broadcom/Brocade and Avaya, Dell acquired EMC, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise acquired Aruba Networks. This industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our business. Large system vendors are increasingly seeking to deliver top-to-bottom cloud networking solutions to end customers that combine cloud-focused hardware and software solutions to provide an alternative to our products. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete with us, and this could lead to more variability in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, the pricing of our solutions, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We also face competition from other companies and new market entrants, including current technology partners, suppliers and end customers or other cloud service providers who may acquire or develop network switches and cloud service solutions for internal use and/or to broaden their portfolio of products to market and sell to customers. Some of these competitors are developing networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, or white box hardware, particularly where an end customers network strategy seeks to emphasize deployment of such product offerings or adopt a disaggregated approach to the procurement of hardware and software. End customers may also increase their adoption of networking solutions based upon open-source network operating systems that may be provided for free and used either on white box or proprietary hardware. The entrance of new competitors into our markets or the increased adoption of these new technology solutions or consumption models may cause downward pricing pressures, result in lost sales or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our relationships with our strategic alliance partners or suppliers may also shift as industry dynamics changes. If strategic alliance partners acquire or develop competitive products or services, our relationship with those partners may be adversely impacted, which could lead to more variability to our results of operations and impact the pricing of our solutions. Many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition and longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners and end customers, the ability to leverage their sales efforts across a broader portfolio of products, the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services, the ability to develop their own silicon chips, the ability to set more aggressive pricing policies, lower labor and development costs, greater resources to make acquisitions, larger intellectual property portfolio, and substantially greater financial, technical, research and development or other resources. In addition, large competitors may have more extensive relationships with and within existing and potential end customers that provide them with an advantage in competing for business with those end customers. For example, certain large competitors encourage end customers of their other products and services to adopt their data networking solutions through discounted bundled product packages. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better solution than our competitors at a more competitive price. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and we cannot assure you that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We also expect increased competition if our market continues to expand. As we continue to expand globally, we have seen and continue to see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced and could continue to experience price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets, as well as those with greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or other factors. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of risks associated with the expansion of our international sales and operations. Our ability to grow our business and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide. Many of our customers, resellers, partners, suppliers and manufacturers operate around the world. Operating in a global marketplace, we are subject to risks associated with having an international reach and compliance and regulatory requirements. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: ability to establish necessary business relationships and to comply with local business requirements, including distributor and reseller relationships; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods and non-standard terms with customers related to payment, warranties or performance obligations; increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining our international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies where we do business; general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets; risks associated with U.S. and foreign legal requirements, including those relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, privacy, data protection and the importation, certification and localization of our products in foreign countries; risks associated with U.S. government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions, including prohibitions, on the exportation, re-exportation, sale, shipment or other transfer of programming, technology, components, and/or services to foreign persons; risks of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties; greater risk of unexpected changes in tariffs imposed by the U.S. and other countries; deterioration of political relations between the U.S. and China, Russia, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the EU, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations as well as our supply chain in these countries; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements. These and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenue and, consequently, materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Expanding our existing international operations and entering into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial commitments. Our failure to successfully manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit our future growth or materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have invested and may continue to invest in or acquire other businesses which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we have made and could continue to make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies which could involve licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in or acquisitions of other companies. For example, we completed the acquisition of Awake Security in October 2020 which required management to focus efforts on integrating Awake Security with the company. We may not be able to find suitable investment or acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete such investments or acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete investments or acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any investments or acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our end customers, investors and securities analysts. Through acquisitions, we continue to expand into new markets and new market segments and we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products, including facing exposure to new market risks, difficulty achieving expected 24 Table of Contents business results due to a lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies or the initial dependence on unfamiliar distribution partners or vendors. In addition, investments and acquisitions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, if we are unsuccessful at integrating any acquisitions or retaining key talent from those acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined company could be adversely affected. We may have difficulty retaining the employees of any acquired business or the acquired technologies or research and development expectations may prove unsuccessful. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel or accurately forecast the financial effects of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. We may not be successful in retaining or expanding the customers and sales activities of any acquired business or in realizing the expected operational and cost efficiencies anticipated with the acquisition. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any such investment or acquisition, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Moreover, if the investment or acquisition becomes impaired, we may be required to take an impairment charge, which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. We operate on a December 31st year end and have typically experienced higher sequential product revenue growth in the fourth quarter, followed by flat to declining sequential growth in the first quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including the procurement, budgeting and deployment cycles of many of our end customers. Our rapid historical growth may have reduced the impact of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. If our increasing size causes our growth rate to slow, seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the current industry-wide supply chain shortages and extended lead times and their impact on our ability to ship products to our customers in a timely manner may disrupt typical seasonal trends. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our sales contracts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our end customers outside of the U.S., which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our product and operating costs in foreign locations. Further, a portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the U.S., is denominated in foreign currencies and is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with the currency fluctuations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. If we needed to raise additional capital to expand our operations, invest in new products or for other corporate purposes, our failure to do so on favorable terms could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. If we did need to raise additional funds to expand our operations, invest in new products or for other corporate purposes, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the market price of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of such debt would have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or impose other restrictions on our business. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders, including maintaining specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things, enhance our products and services, expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations, acquire complementary technologies, products or 25 Table of Contents businesses, and respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Customers and Sales If we are unable to attract new large end customers or to sell additional products and services to our existing end customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected and our revenue could decrease. To increase our revenue, we must add new end customers, especially large end customers, and sell additional products and services to existing end customers. For example, one of our sales strategies is to target specific projects at our current end customers because they are familiar with the operational and economic benefits of our solutions, thereby reducing the sales cycle into these customers. We also believe the opportunity with current end customers is significant given their existing infrastructure and expected future spend. Another one of our sales strategies is focused on increasing penetration in the enterprise and campus markets. However, sales strategies focused on expansion to adjacent markets can require more time and effort since enterprise and campus end customers typically start with small purchases, and there is often a long testing period. For this reason, in order to grow our revenue, it is important for us to attract new large end customers. Some factors that may limit our ability to attract new large end customers include, but are not limited to, saturation with certain large cloud networking customers, competition, decreased capital spending by such customers, a limited number of such customers, and a decline in growth at such customers. If we fail to attract new large end customers, including enterprise and campus end customers, or fail to reduce the sales cycle and sell additional products to our existing end customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. We expect large purchases by a limited number of end customers to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue, and any loss, delay, decline or other change in expected purchases could result in material quarter-to-quarter fluctuations of our revenue or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, large purchases by a relatively limited number of end customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. We have experienced unpredictability in the timing of orders from these large end customers primarily due to changes in demand patterns specific to these customers, the time it takes these end customers to evaluate, test, qualify and accept our products, and the overall complexity of these large orders. We expect continued variability in our customer concentration and timing of sales on a quarterly and annual basis. For example, sales to our end customers Microsoft and Meta Platforms in fiscal 2019 collectively represented 40% of our total revenue, whereas sales to our end customer Microsoft in fiscal 2020 and 2021 amounted to 21.5% and 15.0% of our revenues, respectively, with our end customer Meta Platforms representing less than 10% of our revenues in both fiscal 2020 and 2021. We expect customer concentration with these large customers to be cyclical and linked to new product introductions and customer investment cycles. In addition, we typically provide pricing discounts to large end customers, which may result in lower margins for the period in which such sales occur. As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customer base and their purchasing behavior, our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate. Changes in the business requirements or focus, upgrade cycles, vendor selection, project prioritization, manner in which spending allocations are assigned among multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects, financial prospects, lack of growth of our customers, capital resources and expenditures or purchasing behavior and deceleration in spending of our key end customers could significantly decrease our sales to such end customers or could lead to delays, reductions or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. Moreover, because our sales are based primarily on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay, reduce or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no notice to us. For example, due to the manufacturing disruptions and supply chain constraints caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, end customers may be placing orders in advance of demand to ensure supply. End customers may decide to delay or cancel such orders if economic conditions worsen. This limited visibility regarding our end customers product needs, the timing and quantity of which could vary significantly, requires us to rely on estimated demand forecasts to determine how much material to purchase and product to manufacture. Our failure to accurately forecast demand can lead to product shortages which could lead to delays in fulfilling current and future purchase orders that can impede production by our customers and harm our customer relationships. And, in the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to mitigate the effect of the lost revenue on our business, and in addition, could incur increased excess and obsolete inventory charges, all of which could materially affect our operating results. We may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue from our large end customers, grow revenues with new or other existing end customers at the rate we anticipate or at all, or offset the discontinuation of concentrated purchases by our larger end customers with purchases by new or existing end customers. These customers could choose to divert all or a 26 Table of Contents portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, re-assign spending allocations, increase their adoption of "white box" solutions and open source network operating systems, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or reduce their spending levels. If these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts may be materially impacted. We expect that such concentrated purchases will continue to contribute materially to our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our results of operations may fluctuate materially as a result of such larger end customers buying patterns. In addition, we may see consolidation of our customer base, such as among Internet companies and cloud service providers, which could result in loss of end customers. The loss of such end customers, or a significant delay or reduction in their purchases, including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns, or an unfavorable change in competitive conditions could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our new products and services, our revenue may not continue to grow or may decline. We have not yet established broad market awareness of our new products and services, including new products we introduced in the campus workspace and network security markets. Market awareness of our value proposition and products and services will be essential to our continued growth and our success, particularly for the service provider and broader enterprise markets. If our marketing efforts are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and our products and services or in gaining access to new customer markets, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. Some of our large end customers require more favorable terms and conditions from their vendors and may request price concessions. As we seek to sell more products to these end customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenue. Our large end customers have significant purchasing power and, as a result, may receive more favorable terms and conditions than we typically provide to other end customers, including lower prices, bundled upgrades, extended warranties, acceptance terms, indemnification terms and extended return policies and other contractual rights. As we seek to sell more products to these large end customers, an increased mix of our shipments may be subject to such terms and conditions, which may reduce our margins or affect the timing of our revenue recognition and thus may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Sales of our switches generate most of our product revenue, and if we are unable to continue to grow sales of these products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will suffer. Historically, we have derived substantially all of our product revenue from sales of our switches, and we expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We have experienced declines in sales prices for our products, including our 10 Gigabit Ethernet modular and fixed switches. A decline in the price of switches and related services, or our inability to increase sales of these products, would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects more seriously than if we derived significant revenue from a larger variety of product lines and services. Our future financial performance will also depend upon successfully developing and selling next-generation versions of our switches. If we fail to deliver new products, new features, or new releases that end customers want and that allow us to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. The sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely affect our results of operations. The sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts, a change in our mix of products and services, the introduction of new products and services by us or by our competitors including the adoption of white box solutions, promotional programs, product and related warranty costs or broader macroeconomic factors. In addition, we have provided, and may in the future provide, pricing discounts to large end customers, which may result in lower margins for the period in which such sales occur. Our gross margins may also fluctuate as a result of the timing of such sales to large end customers. We have experienced declines in sales prices for our products and services. Competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and services. Additionally, although we generally price our products and services worldwide in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may adversely affect actual prices that partners and end customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. 27 Table of Contents Furthermore, sales prices and gross profits for our products may decrease over product life cycles. Decreased sales prices for any reason may reduce our gross profits and adversely affect our result of operations. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our sales and revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of our products sales cycles. A sales cycle is the period between initial contact with a prospective end customer and any sale of our products. End-customer orders often involve the purchase of multiple products. These orders are complex and difficult to complete because prospective end customers generally consider a number of factors over an extended period of time before committing to purchase the products and solutions we sell. End customers, especially our large end customers, often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision and require considerable time to evaluate, test and qualify our products prior to making a purchase decision and placing an order. The length of time that end customers devote to their evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes varies significantly. In addition, customers may delay upgrades to their network infrastructure which extends the upgrade and sales cycle. Our products sales cycles can be lengthy in certain cases, especially with respect to our prospective large end customers. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities and make investments in evaluation equipment, all of which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs. Even if an end customer decides to purchase our products, there are many factors affecting the timing of our recognition of revenue, which makes our revenue difficult to forecast. For example, there may be unexpected delays in an end customers internal procurement processes, particularly for some of our larger end customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their total procurement activity. In addition, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the sales cycle may be extended and there may be delays and reductions of expenditures and cancellations by end customers. There are many other factors specific to end customers that contribute to the timing of their purchases and the variability of our revenue recognition, including the strategic importance of a particular project to an end customer, budgetary constraints and changes in their personnel. Even after an end customer makes a purchase, there may be circumstances or terms relating to the purchase that delay our ability to recognize revenue from that purchase. In addition, the significance and timing of our product enhancements, and the introduction of new products by our competitors, may also affect end customers purchases. For all of these reasons, it is difficult to predict whether a sale will be completed, the particular period in which a sale will be completed or the period in which revenue from a sale will be recognized. If our sales cycles lengthen, our revenue could be lower than expected, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality support and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Once our products are deployed within our end customers networks, our end customers depend on our support organization and our channel partners to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not assist our end customers in deploying our products effectively, do not succeed in helping our end customers resolve post-deployment issues quickly or do not provide adequate ongoing support, or if we experience quality issues with these new products, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing end customers and could harm our reputation with potential end customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure or the failure of our channel partners to maintain high-quality support and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on end customers renewing their maintenance and support contracts. Any decline in maintenance renewals could harm our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We typically sell our products with maintenance and support as part of the initial purchase, and a portion of our annual revenue comes from renewals of maintenance and support contracts. Our end customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance and support contracts after the expiration of the initial period, and they may elect not to renew their maintenance and support contracts, to renew their maintenance and support contracts at lower prices through alternative channel partners or to reduce the product quantity under their maintenance and support contracts, thereby reducing our future revenue from maintenance and support contracts. If our end customers, especially our large end customers, do not renew their maintenance and support contracts or if they renew them on terms that are less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will suffer. 28 Table of Contents Our standard sales contracts contain indemnification provisions requiring us to defend our end customers against third-party claims, including against infringement of certain intellectual property rights that could expose us to losses which could seriously harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Under the indemnification provisions of our standard sales contracts, we agree to defend our end customers and channel partners against third-party claims asserting infringement of certain intellectual property rights, which may include patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets, and to pay judgments entered on such claims. An adverse ruling in such litigation may potentially expose us to claims in the event that claims are brought against our customers based on the ruling and we are required to indemnify such customers. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is frequently limited to the total amount paid by our end customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. Any of these events, including claims for indemnification, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition to our own direct sales force, we rely on distributors, systems integrators and value-added resellers to sell our products, and our failure to effectively develop, manage or prevent disruptions to our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could cause a reduction in the number of end customers of our products. Our future success is highly dependent upon maintaining our relationships with distributors, systems integrators and value-added resellers and establishing additional sales channel relationships. We anticipate that sales of our products to a limited number of channel partners will continue to account for a material portion of our total product revenue for the foreseeable future. We provide our channel partners with specific training and programs to assist them in selling our products, but these steps may not be effective. In addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective sales incentive programs for our channel partners, we may not be able to incentivize these partners to sell our products to end customers. These partners may have incentives to promote our competitors products to the detriment of our own or may cease selling our products altogether. One of our channel partners could elect to consolidate or enter into a strategic partnership with one of our competitors, which could reduce or eliminate our future opportunities with that channel partner. Our agreements with our channel partners may generally be terminated for any reason by either party with advance notice. We may be unable to retain these channel partners or secure additional or replacement channel partners. The loss of one or more of our significant channel partners requires extensive training, and any new or expanded relationship with a channel partner may take several months or more to achieve productivity. Where we rely on the channel partners for sales of our products, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products that purchase through such channel partners, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing end-customer requirements, estimate end-customer demand and respond to evolving end-customer needs. In addition, our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end customers, fail to comply with their contractual obligations or violate laws or our corporate policies. If we fail to effectively manage our existing sales channels, or if our channel partners are unsuccessful in fulfilling the orders for our products, if we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain a sufficient number of, high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We anticipate increasing our sales efforts to U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local governmental end customers in the future. Sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. The substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government certification requirements for products like ours may change and, in doing so, restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained revised certifications. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Selling to government entities may also require us to comply with various 29 Table of Contents regulations that are not applicable to sales to non-government entities, including regulations that may relate to pricing, classified material, prohibitions against use of certain foreign components in our products and services and other matters. Complying with such regulations may also require us to put in place