Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, accounting for and future sources of revenue, expectations regarding expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts," projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us, our and "Telenav" refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as fiscal 2017" and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 as "fiscal 2018. Overview Telenav is a leading provider of connected car and location-based platform products and services. We utilize our automotive navigation platform and our advertising platform to deliver these products and services. Our automotive navigation platform allows us to deliver enhanced location-based services to automobile manufacturers, as well as original equipment manufacturers and tier one suppliers, to which we refer collectively as OEMs. Our advertising platform, which we provide through our Thinknear subsidiary, delivers highly targeted advertising services leveraging our location expertise for advertisers and advertising agencies. We report operating results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. Our legacy mobile navigation business has declined steadily since fiscal 2013, and we expect it to continue to decline. Mobile navigation represented $3.7 million , or 10% , of our consolidated revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Telenav began offering its mobile navigation services in 2003. Our mobile navigation business generates revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our navigation services to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or services. The mobile navigation business has declined both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue from $116.4 million, or 61% of our revenue, in fiscal 2013 to $19.0 million, or 11% of our revenue, in fiscal 2017, as subscriptions for paid navigation services declined in favor of free or freemium navigation services offered by our competitors with greater resources and name recognition, such as Google and Apple. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience the non-renewal of our agreements for these services by our wireless carrier customers as demand from their subscribers declines. In the event our mobile navigation business ceases to be profitable or we determine that it diverts resources from strategic growth areas of our business, we may ultimately elect to terminate our legacy wireless carrier mobile navigation business. In addition, we expect the continued deterioration of this revenue base will result in an impairment of some or all of the goodwill assigned to this reporting unit during the second half of fiscal 2018. We have not recognized any impairment of goodwill through September 30, 2017 . Total goodwill for our mobile navigation segment as of September 30, 2017 was $2.7 million. We derive revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and OEMs, advertisers and advertising agencies. We receive revenue from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our personalized navigation services and OEMs who provide larger systems in which our automotive navigation services are integrated. These manufacturers and OEMs generally do not provide us with any volume or revenue guarantees. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies, which represent national and regional brands, and channel partners, which work closely with local and small business advertisers. 17 Table of Contents For our automotive segment customers, we offer our automotive and mobile navigation platform products and services to vehicle manufacturers and OEMs for distribution with vehicles. We believe our history as a supplier of cloud-based navigation services combined with our proven track record of working closely with these automobile manufacturers and OEMs provides a unique advantage in the automotive navigation marketplace over our competitors. We offer embedded navigation products that are integrated into the vehicle, which we refer to as on-board, connected navigation services that utilize our mobile device-based wireless connectivity, which we refer to as brought-in, and hybrid solutions that contain elements of both on-board and connected functionality. We provide our automotive navigation products and services to automobile manufacturers such as Ford Motor Company and affiliated entities, or Ford, which represented 65% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 , General Motors Holdings and its affiliates, or GM, and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota. We believe our advertising delivery platform offers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We are experts in location-based advertising and believe we offer differentiated value to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers through our location targeting capabilities. Our technology focuses on managing the complexity and scale associated with mobile location data to deliver better mobile campaigns for our advertising partners. We deliver mobile advertisements by leveraging our proprietary in-house ad serving technology. Our inventory, or accessible market, is comprised of thousands of mobile applications and mobile websites that are accessed through advertising exchanges using programmatic real-time bidding, or RTB, tools. We generate product revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform. Ford pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 2 on-board solutions as the software is imaged onto an SD card and shipped for installation in vehicles and pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 3 on-board solutions as our software is installed in the vehicle. We also derive product revenue from map update fees. We generate automotive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions. We earn a fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads and activates the GM OnStar RemoteLink or associated application, whereby we provide enhanced search capabilities for contracted service periods. We also earn a fee for each new Toyota and Lexus vehicle sold and enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, similarly provided over a contracted service period. For our on-board and connected navigation solutions, GM pays us a product royalty fee as the software is imaged onto an SD card and shipped for installation in vehicles; this royalty includes a fee for the initial connected service to be provided once the vehicle is sold. GM will pay us an additional service fee for connected solution subscriptions for each end user that elects to renew their OnStar Connected Navigation or Connected Navigation subscription with GM. Due to specified future obligations, we did not recognize any revenue from GM on-board and connected navigation solutions in fiscal 2017 or the three months ended September 30, 2017, although we did experience increases in deferred revenue. We expect that we will not recognize any revenue from GM for our on-board and connected navigation solutions during fiscal 2018 due to specified future obligations. We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. We also generate a declining portion of our services revenue from subscriptions to access our mobile navigation services, which are generally provided through our wireless carrier customers that offer our services to their subscribers. Our wireless carrier customers typically pay us based on a revenue sharing arrangement or a monthly subscription fee per end user. Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures such as billings, changes in deferred revenue and deferred costs, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, and free cash flow are not measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do. Our key operating and financial performance metrics are as follows (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): 18 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Revenue $ 36,658 $ 42,227 Revenue from Ford as a percentage of total revenue 65 % 68 % Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 65,789 $ 47,269 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings (Non-GAAP) 68 % 64 % Increase in deferred revenue $ 29,131 $ 5,042 Increase in deferred costs $ 20,048 $ 2,857 Gross profit $ 15,811 $ 18,751 Gross margin 43 % 44 % Direct contribution (Non-GAAP) $ 24,894 $ 20,936 Direct contribution margin (Non-GAAP) 38 % 44 % Net loss $ (16,098 ) $ (9,335 ) Diluted net loss per share $ (0.37 ) $ (0.22 ) Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ (13,470 ) $ (6,848 ) Free cash flow (Non-GAAP) $ (6,074 ) $ (6,083 ) Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Billings measure revenue recognized plus the change in deferred revenue from the beginning to the end of the period. Direct contribution from billings reflects GAAP gross profit plus change in deferred revenue less change in deferred costs. Direct contribution margin from billings reflects direct contribution from billings divided by billings. We have also provided a breakdown of the calculation of the change in deferred revenue by segment, which is added to revenue in calculating our non-GAAP metric of billings. In connection with our presentation of the change in deferred revenue, we have provided a similar presentation of the change in the related deferred costs. Such deferred costs primarily include costs associated with third party content and certain development costs associated with our customized software solutions. As deferred revenue and deferred costs become larger components of our operating results, we believe these metrics are useful in evaluating cash flow. We consider billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings to be useful metrics for management and investors because billings drive revenue and deferred revenue, which is an important indicator of the viability of our business. We believe direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings are useful metrics because they reflect the impact of the contribution over time from such billings, exclusive of the incremental costs incurred to deliver any related service obligations. There are a number of limitations related to the use of billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings versus revenue, gross profit and gross margin calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings include amounts that have not yet been recognized as revenue or cost and may require additional services to be provided over contracted service periods. For example, billings related to certain connected solutions cannot be fully recognized as revenue in a given period due to requirements for ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring, customer support and map updates, including certain third party technology and content license fees as applicable. Second, we may calculate billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings in a manner that is different from peer companies that report similar financial measures, making comparisons between companies more difficult. When we use these measures, we attempt to compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding billings and how they relate to revenue, gross profit and gross margin calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA measures our GAAP net loss excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, other income (expense), provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other applicable items such as legal settlements and contingencies, and deferred rent reversal and tenant improvement allowance recognition due to sublease termination, net of tax. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Legal settlements and contingencies represent settlements and offers made to settle patent litigation cases in which we are a defendant and royalty disputes. Deferred rent reversal and tenant improvement allowance recognition 19 Table of Contents represent the reversal of our deferred rent liability and recognition of our deferred tenant improvement allowance, as amortization of these amounts is no longer required due to the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease and subsequent entry into a new lease agreement with our landlord for this same facility in August 2017. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. In addition, adjusted EBITDA is a key financial measure used by the compensation committee of our board of directors in connection with the development of incentive-based compensation for our executive officers. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA generally provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure we define as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash (used) generated by our business after the purchases of property and equipment. These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring and customer support; accordingly, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings do not reflect all costs associated with billings; assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the use of cash for net share settlements of RSUs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow or similarly titled measures may be calculated by other companies differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider billings, direct contribution from billings, direct contribution margin from billings, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures. We reconcile the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to each non-GAAP financial metric used. The following tables present reconciliations of revenue to billings, deferred revenue to the change in deferred revenue, deferred costs to the change in deferred costs, gross profit to direct contribution from billings, net loss to adjusted EBITDA and net loss to free cash flow for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): 20 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Automotive Revenue $ 25,304 $ 30,267 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 29,188 5,113 Billings $ 54,492 $ 35,380 Advertising Revenue $ 7,615 $ 6,545 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue Billings $ 7,615 $ 6,545 Mobile Navigation Revenue $ 3,739 $ 5,415 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue (57 ) (71 ) Billings $ 3,682 $ 5,344 Total Revenue $ 36,658 $ 42,227 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 29,131 5,042 Billings $ 65,789 $ 47,269 Reconciliation of Deferred Revenue to Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Revenue Reconciliation of Deferred Costs to Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Costs Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Deferred revenue, September 30 $ 115,705 $ $ 827 $ 116,532 Deferred revenue, June 30 86,517 884 87,401 Change in deferred revenue $ 29,188 $ $ (57 ) $ 29,131 Deferred costs, September 30 $ 74,140 $ $ $ 74,140 Deferred costs, June 30 54,092 54,092 Change in deferred costs $ 20,048 $ $ $ 20,048 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Deferred revenue, September 30 $ 27,266 $ $ 1,145 $ 28,411 Deferred revenue, June 30 22,153 1,216 23,369 Change in deferred revenue $ 5,113 $ $ (71 ) $ 5,042 Deferred costs, September 30 $ 14,933 $ $ $ 14,933 Deferred costs, June 30 12,076 12,076 Change in deferred costs $ 2,857 $ $ $ 2,857 Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings - Ford Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Revenue from Ford $ 23,963 $ 28,758 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue attributed to Ford 21,031 1,381 Billings to Ford $ 44,994 $ 30,139 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings 68 % 64 % Reconciliation of Gross Profit to Direct Contribution from Billings (in thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Gross profit $ 15,811 $ 18,751 Gross margin 43 % 44 % Adjustments to gross profit: Change in deferred revenue 29,131 5,042 Change in deferred costs (1) (20,048 ) (2,857 ) Net change 9,083 2,185 Direct contribution from billings (1) $ 24,894 $ 20,936 Direct contribution margin from billings (1) 38 % 44 % (1) Deferred costs primarily include costs associated with third party content and in connection with certain customized software solutions, the costs incurred to develop those solutions. We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring and customer support. Accordingly, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings do not include all costs associated with billings. 22 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Net loss $ (16,098 ) $ (9,335 ) Adjustments: Legal settlement and contingencies 250 Deferred rent reversal due to lease termination (538 ) Tenant improvement allowance recognition due to lease termination (582 ) Stock-based compensation expense 2,480 2,541 Depreciation and amortization 716 637 Other income (expense), net 47 (296 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 255 (395 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (13,470 ) $ (6,848 ) Reconciliation of Net Loss to Free Cash Flow Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Net loss $ (16,098 ) $ (9,335 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities: Change in deferred revenue (1) 29,131 5,042 Change in deferred costs (2) (20,048 ) (2,857 ) Changes in other operating assets and liabilities 1,046 (1,909 ) Other adjustments (3) 2,181 3,370 Net cash used in operating activities (3,788 ) (5,689 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (2,286 ) (394 ) Free cash flow $ (6,074 ) $ (6,083 ) (1) Consists of product royalties, customized software development fees, service fees and subscription fees. (2) Consists primarily of third party content costs and customized software development expenses. (3) Consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other non-cash items. 23 Table of Contents Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, and map updates to the software. Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our brought-in automotive navigation services, advertising services and mobile navigation services. We report revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. Our chief executive officer, or CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments. See " - Results of operations" and Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q for more information about our business segments. Revenue from our automotive segment represented 69% and 72% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Ford represented 65% and 68% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our contract with Ford covers a broad range of products and services that we provide to Ford. As of December 31, 2017, material programs covered under the agreement will expire unless we and Ford come to agreement on an extension; however, services under other programs by which our products are installed in new vehicles expire in December 2021, subject to the extension of certain vehicle programs and may be extended to coincide with the service period for the last vehicle enabled to utilize our connected services. The agreement may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term, and the other party agrees to such renewal. We are currently negotiating a multi-year extension to our agreement to provide our navigation products and services for SYNC 3 in new vehicles. Although we believe we will achieve a satisfactory outcome, we may enter into changes in the contract structure that may impact our revenue recognition and billings. If we succeed in entering into contracts with Ford for the extension of SYNC 3, we do not yet know what pricing would be, which geographies our products and services would be offered in, which vehicles would include our products and services and which geographies would include future value-added services, such as map updates. The nature and timing of such offerings can have a significant impact on revenue recognition and gross profit. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenue, and, to a lesser extent, gross profit is impacted by the underlying licensed content cost negotiated through HERE and other content providers and we cannot predict the impact on our revenue and gross profit of any changes between Ford and the map or other content providers. Our automotive product revenue is generated primarily from on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to Ford. Our on-board solutions consist of software, map and point of interest, or POI, data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. Our product revenue is primarily derived from Ford's SYNC 2 and SYNC 3 on-board solutions. We recognize as revenue royalties earned from our Ford SYNC 2 on-board solutions as the software is reproduced onto an SD card and shipped for installation in vehicles; however, we recognize revenue from Ford SYNC 3 primarily as our software is installed in the vehicle by Ford. Accordingly, the timing of our revenue recognition changed materially in fiscal 2017 during Ford's global transition from SYNC 2 to SYNC 3. We experienced a lower level of orders and revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2016 as Ford used its existing inventory of SYNC 2 product in conjunction with its transition to SYNC 3. Ford transitioned to SYNC 3 in all major regions as of December 31, 2016. In October 2017, we amended our agreement with Ford to provide certain connected services for SYNC 3 globally. We have contracted with Ford Europe and Ford Australia and New Zealand to provide annual map updates over the defined period as part of their SYNC 2 and SYNC 3 product distribution. We earn an annual fee and a per unit fee for these updates. As our solutions encompass greater value-added services, such as Fords map update program, there is potential for changes in the timing of revenue recognition. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . We also have agreements with GM. In February 2017, GM launched its first model featuring integration of our on-board and connected navigation solution, the 2017 Cadillac CTS and CTS-V. Our solution is now available on the 2018 Cadillac CTS, CTS-V, ATS and XTS models, as well as the GM Terrain vehicles. Due to specified future obligations in connection with the launch, we did not recognize any revenue from GM on-board and connected navigation solutions in fiscal 2017 or the three months ended September 30, 2017, although we did experience increases in deferred revenue from these solutions. We expect that we will not recognize any revenue from GM for our on-board and connected navigation solutions during fiscal 2018 due to these specified future obligations. Our on-board and connected navigation solution is scheduled to become available in 24 Table of Contents additional regions and GM models for model years 2018 to 2025. We have been selected to provide entry level on-board navigation through LG, a Tier 1 supplier for the Opel and Vauxhall line of vehicles, for the European market. This solution launched in Adam, Corsa, Karl and Zafira model vehicles equipped with NAVI 4.0 IntelliLink beginning in July 2017. These products are expected to be made available in other select vehicles for model years 2018 to 2022. We derive automotive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions. Billings for these services are recorded as deferred revenue and amortized to revenue over the estimated service periods. GM offers its OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform, and we earn a one-time fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads the OnStar RemoteLink or associated branded application. We have a partnership with Toyota for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link mobile application is available in Entune Audio Plus equipped Toyota vehicles in the United States and in certain of its Lexus models equipped with Lexus Display Audio multimedia. Toyota and Lexus vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link began shipping in August 2015 and September 2016, respectively. We earn a one-time fee for each new Toyota or Lexus sold and enabled to connect to our Scout GPS Link mobile application. In January 2017, Telenav and Xevo Inc. announced that Scout GPS Link and Xevo Engine Link were chosen to provide brought-in navigation services, including a fully interactive moving map, for select model year 2018 Toyota vehicles equipped with Entune 3.0, as well as certain Lexus vehicles. Our fully interactive solution is available on select model year 2018 Toyota Camry and Lexus NX models, and is expected to become available on additional models for model years 2018 to 2023. On these same Toyota and Lexus models, a premium embedded connected navigation option is also available that provides connected search, powered by our platform. We anticipate that Toyota and Lexus will offer both our current solution and the new fully interactive solution in model year 2018 vehicles, with the availability of each solution dependent upon the Toyota and Lexus model and trim level. Revenue from our advertising segment, which includes the delivery of display, location-based advertising impressions, represented 21% and 15% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our advertising revenue is derived primarily from ad insertion orders contracted with advertising agencies, direct customers, and channel partners. Revenue from our mobile navigation segment represented 10% and 13% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. We offer voice-guided, real-time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands). Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service has declined steadily from fiscal 2013 through the three months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to a substantial decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and other wireless carriers, including Sprint Corporation, or Sprint. We expect that mobile navigation revenue will continue to decline. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience the non-renewal of our agreements for these services by our wireless carrier customers as demand from their subscribers declines. We derive mobile navigation services revenue primarily from our wireless carrier customers for their end users' subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on a revenue sharing arrangement or a monthly subscription fee per end user, and they are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our navigation services. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In fiscal 2018, we expect automotive and advertising revenue to represent the strategic growth segments of our business, but our expectations may not be realized. We expect that services revenue from wireless carrier customers, which has a higher gross margin than automotive and advertising revenue, will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2018 due to the continued decline in the number of monthly recurring subscribers. 25 Table of Contents We generated 93% and 90% of our revenue in the United States in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify the majority of that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturer's or OEM's United States' entity. It is possible that this classification may change in the future, as existing and new customers may elect to contract through subsidiaries. For example, in the three months ended September 30, 2016, Ford assigned certain contract rights for its production of vehicles with our SYNC 3 products to its joint ventures in China. Cost of revenue We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions and recognition of deferred development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third party content we incur in providing our brought-in automotive navigation solutions, third party exchange ad inventory, data center operations and outsourced hosting services, customer support, stock-based compensation and amortization of developed technology that we incur in providing our navigation and advertising network services. We also capitalize and defer recognition of certain licensed map and POI content costs from third parties in a manner similar to deferred revenue for our brought-in automotive solutions and certain of our on-board solutions, and we recognize these deferred costs over the requisite service period. As the deferred revenue and related deferred costs are recognized as the underlying services are provided, we will also incur ongoing costs of revenue for network operations, hosting and data center, customer service support, and other related costs over time. We primarily provide navigation service customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. In addition, we use outsourced, hosting services and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability, which could result in penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements or termination of our customer agreement. The largest component of cost of revenue as it relates to our advertising business is the cost of location-based, third party advertising inventory which we acquire from advertising exchanges. Other notable costs of our advertising business are the cost of technologies that we license to deliver customized solutions, costs of ad delivery via contracted hosted relationships and the cost of our advertising operations. While we expect that our services revenue from wireless carrier customers will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2018 and beyond, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate, if at all, as the decline in services revenue. Although we successfully transitioned to utilizing OpenStreetMap, or OSM, content for the majority of our mobile user base resulting in notable cost savings, we expect to continue to incur significant costs, especially related to third party content as well as for outsourced hosting services. Cost of services revenue related to our advertising business will be impacted by our ability to grow advertising revenue, as well as the cost and availability of display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, advertising sales commissions, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, third party contractor and temporary staffing services, facilities-related costs including rent expense, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of significant additional headcount, or reallocation of employee personnel to automotive and advertising. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development and product management employees and related costs of outside consultants and temporary staffing. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing and developing products and services. In addition to our U.S. employee base, a significant number of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and Romania; as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB, and the Romanian Leu, or RON. 26 Table of Contents Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from wireless carriers, which bore much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers, as well as consumers acquired through open market application stores. More recently, automotive revenue has comprised the largest portion of our revenue and automotive and advertising revenue have represented the growing components of our revenue. Our sales and marketing activities supporting our automotive navigation solutions include the costs of our business development efforts. Our automobile manufacturer partners and OEMs also provide primary marketing for our on-board and brought-in navigation services. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. With our settlement of the Vehicle IP case in fiscal 2017, we anticipate that reduced legal expenses will drive decreased general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2018. We may also be required to pay judgments, indemnification claims or other amounts, which we are unable to predict or estimate at this time. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gain or loss on investments and foreign currency gains or losses. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned in foreign jurisdictions, foreign withholding taxes, and changes to our tax reserves. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly in those periods in which we incur losses, due to our ability to benefit from the carryback of net operating losses within the carryback period and the available amount therein, if any. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis our tax rates can fluctuate due to changes in our tax reserves resulting from the settlement of tax audits or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as the expiration and retroactive reinstatement of tax holidays. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2017. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 27 Table of Contents Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 2017 2016 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 23,964 $ 29,423 Services 12,694 12,804 Total revenue 36,658 42,227 Cost of revenue: Product 14,674 17,761 Services 6,173 5,715 Total cost of revenue 20,847 23,476 Gross profit 15,811 18,751 Operating expenses: Research and development 21,082 18,018 Sales and marketing 5,064 5,268 General and administrative 5,211 5,491 Legal settlement and contingencies 250 Total operating expenses 31,607 28,777 Loss from operations (15,796 ) (10,026 ) Other income (expense), net (47 ) 296 Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (15,843 ) (9,730 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 255 (395 ) Net loss $ (16,098 ) $ (9,335 ) (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Product 65 % 70 % Services 35 % 30 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 40 % 42 % Services 17 % 14 % Total cost of revenue 57 % 56 % Gross profit 43 % 44 % Operating expenses: Research and development 57 % 43 % Sales and marketing 14 % 12 % General and administrative 14 % 13 % Legal settlement and contingencies 1 % % Total operating expenses 86 % 68 % Loss from operations (43 )% (24 )% Other income (expense), net % 1 % Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (43 )% (23 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 % (1 )% Net loss (44 )% (22 )% 28 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit . Consolidated overview. Product revenue decreased 19% to $24.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $29.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in product revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in royalty revenue recognized from the commencement of Ford's map update program in Europe in the second half of fiscal 2017, whereby revenue from certain on-board navigation products offered with map updates that we previously recognized as revenue upon delivery is now being deferred and recognized over the contractual period during which we provide map updates. Services revenue decreased 1% to $12.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $12.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in services revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation revenue, partially offset by increases in advertising revenue and automotive navigation revenue. Our cost of product revenue decreased 17% to $14.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $17.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in third party content costs associated with automotive navigation solutions as a result of offering map updates in Europe in conjunction with our on-board navigation product, which requires that we defer the associated costs that we previously recognized upon delivery and now recognize those costs with the related revenue over the contractual period during which we provide map updates. Our cost of services revenue increased 8% to $6.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $5.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in cost of automotive revenue associated with the increased revenue from brought-in solutions and an increase in cost of mobile navigation revenue associated with increased hosting services, partially offset by a decrease in cost of advertising revenue resulting from a decrease in third party ad exchange inventory costs. Our gross profit decreased to $15.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $18.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Our gross margin decreased slightly to 43% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 44% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in gross margin for the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in automotive gross margin resulting from a change in product region and customer mix, partially offset by an increase in automotive gross margin resulting from the contract with Ford to provide map updates in Europe commencing in the second half of fiscal 2017, as the royalties earned from on-board navigation solutions for the Europe region that were recognized upon delivery in previous periods and carry a higher relative map cost and lower gross margin are now deferred and recognized over the contractual period. Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , revenue from Ford represented 65% and 68% of our total revenue, respectively. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 93% and 90% of our total revenue, respectively. 29 Table of Contents Segments information. The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable business segments (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Automotive Revenue $ 25,304 $ 30,267 Cost of revenue 15,885 18,545 Gross profit $ 9,419 $ 11,722 Gross margin 37 % 39 % Advertising Revenue $ 7,615 $ 6,545 Cost of revenue 3,412 3,526 Gross profit $ 4,203 $ 3,019 Gross margin 55 % 46 % Mobile Navigation Revenue $ 3,739 $ 5,415 Cost of revenue 1,550 1,405 Gross profit $ 2,189 $ 4,010 Gross margin 59 % 74 % Total Revenue $ 36,658 $ 42,227 Cost of revenue 20,847 23,476 Gross profit $ 15,811 $ 18,751 Gross margin 43 % 44 % Automotive. Automotive revenue decreased 16% to $25.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $30.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in production royalty revenue of $6.1 million resulting from the commencement of Ford's map update program in Europe in the second half of fiscal 2017, whereby revenue from certain on-board navigation product offered with map updates that we previously recognized as revenue upon delivery is now being deferred and recognized over the contractual period during which we provide map updates. Automotive revenue included customized software development and map update revenue of $1.1 million and zero in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. In addition, during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , our automotive deferred revenue increased $29.2 million primarily related to royalties from SYNC 3 map update programs for Ford Europe, Australia and New Zealand, GM's on-board and connected solution and OnStar RemoteLink, and Toyota's Scout GPS Link mobile applications. Automotive revenue represented 69% and 72% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cost of automotive revenue decreased 14% to $15.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $18.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in third party content costs of $3.6 million as a result of offering map updates in Europe in conjunction with our on-board navigation product, which requires that we defer the associated costs that we previously recognized upon delivery and now recognize those costs with the related revenue over the contractual period during which we provide map updates. Automotive gross profit decreased 20% to $9.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $11.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Automotive gross margin decreased to 37% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 39% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in gross margin for the comparable period was due primarily to a change in product region and customer mix, partially offset by an increase in gross margin resulting from the contract with Ford to provide map updates in Europe commencing in the second half of fiscal 2017, as the royalties earned from on-board navigation solutions for the Europe region that were recognized upon delivery 30 Table of Contents in previous periods and carry a higher relative map cost and lower gross margin are now deferred and recognized over the contractual period. Advertising . Advertising revenue increased 16% to $7.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $6.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in the value of contracted insertion orders along with the number of impressions delivered. Advertising revenue represented 21% and 15% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cost of advertising revenue decreased 3% to $3.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $3.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreased third party ad exchange inventory costs of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in hosting services costs of $0.1 million. Our costs of advertising revenue decreased, despite an increase in our advertising revenue, due primarily to continued improvements in our ability to acquire high performing inventory that meets our customers' requirements at a lower effective cost per thousand impressions, or eCPM. Advertising gross profit increased 39% to $4.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $3.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Advertising gross margin increased to 55% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 46% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in gross margin in the comparable three month period was due primarily to the increased value of contracted insertion orders, combined with a lower inventory eCPM. Mobile Navigation . Mobile navigation revenue decreased 31% to $3.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $5.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower subscription revenue resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T and T-Mobile and a decrease in mobile navigation revenue internationally. Mobile navigation revenue represented 10% and 13% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cost of mobile navigation revenue increased 10% to $1.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $1.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in hosted services costs of $0.1 million. Mobile navigation gross profit decreased 45% to $2.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Mobile navigation gross margin decreased to 59% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 74% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in gross margin resulted primarily from declining revenue, while costs such as third party content remain generally fixed. Operating expenses Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 17% to $21.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $18.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to increases in payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $3.4 million, outside consulting services of $1.1 million, hosted services of $0.2 million and travel and entertainment of $0.2 million, partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in rent and depreciation expense resulting from the reversal of deferred rent and recognition of a tenant improvement allowance in connection with the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease and a decrease of $1.4 million as a result of higher deferred development costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 57% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 43% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The total number of research and development personnel increased 39% to 645 at September 30, 2017 from 464 at September 30, 2016 with a significant portion of the increase attributable to employees in lower cost regions such as Romania and China. We believe that as we deliver our contracted customer requirements for our automotive customers, establish relationships with new automobile manufacturers and OEMs, enhance our service offerings around our OSM capabilities, and develop new products and services for advertisers, revenue from those research and development efforts will lag the related expenses. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses decreased 4% to $5.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $5.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease of $0.3 million in rent and depreciation expense resulting from the reversal of deferred rent and recognition of a tenant improvement allowance in connection with the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 14% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 12% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel increased 9% to 61 at September 30, 2017 from 56 at September 30, 2016 . 31 Table of Contents General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses decreased 5% to $5.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $5.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in legal expense of $0.5 million, payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $0.2 million and $0.2 million in rent and depreciation expense resulting from the reversal of deferred rent and recognition of a tenant improvement allowance in connection with the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease, partially offset by an increase in outside services of $0.6 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 14% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The total number of general and administrative personnel was 58 at September 30, 2017 and 2016 . Legal settlement and contingencies. Legal settlement and contingencies expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was comprised of $0.3 million related to the settlement of the Location Based Services LLC patent matter. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Other income (expense), net . Our other income (expense), net decreased to $(47,000) in the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to $0.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to increased foreign exchange losses incurred. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes was $0.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to $(0.4) million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Our provision for income taxes of $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was comprised primarily of foreign withholding taxes and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions where we have profit. In July 2016, the State of New York completed its audit of our income tax returns for fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012. We paid $0.4 million to settle the audit and recorded a tax benefit of $1.0 million in July 2016 to reverse the remaining related tax reserves. Our provision for income taxes of $(0.4) million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was comprised primarily of foreign withholding taxes on revenue generated in China and foreign taxes, offset by a $1.0 million reversal of tax reserves resulting from our July 2016 settlement of the State of New York's audit of our income tax returns for fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012. Our effective tax rate of 2% and 4% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, was less than the tax amount computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to losses for which no benefit will be recognized since they are not more likely than not to be realized due to the lack of current and future income and the inability to carry back losses within the two year carryback period. We anticipate that our foreign tax withholding obligation will continue into the future and that we will not be able to benefit from an offsetting deduction in the United States for an extended period of time given our existing net operating loss carryforwards and, accordingly, we have negotiated a price adjustment with a major customer. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017 , our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $3.8 million and $3.0 million , respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was $0.1 million that if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We accrued $0.1 million for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017 . We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have filing obligations. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2016 through fiscal 2017 for federal tax purposes, fiscal 2013 through fiscal 2017 in state jurisdictions, and fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2017 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. As of September 30, 2017 , the State of New York had completed its audit for fiscal 2013 through fiscal 2015, which will result in our payment of an immaterial settlement amount. Due to operating losses in previous years and continued earnings volatility, we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our foreign deferred tax assets. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2017 was $50.1 million . In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. 32 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,788 ) $ (5,689 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 1,056 2,043 Net cash used in financing activities (905 ) (1,233 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 343 65 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (3,294 ) $ (4,814 ) At September 30, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $91.7 million , which primarily consisted of corporate bonds, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, municipal securities and money market mutual funds held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2017 , our accounts receivable balance was $59.9 million , of which Ford represented 70% . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to increase our billings and control our expenses in fiscal 2018 and beyond, whether we return to profitability, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the timing and scale of the introduction of vehicles including our navigation products relative to when we are required to develop the product. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we expect to continue to use cash in operating activities in fiscal 2018 and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities if revenue or collections are lower than we anticipate or we incur greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, one of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them; we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, our revenue did not grow as expected or we were unable to reduce our costs by using OSM. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash used in operating activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $ 3.8 million and $5.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is affected by changes in our declining mobile navigation end user base, anticipated growth in our automotive and advertising businesses, and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $16.1 million which was offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $ 2.5 million , depreciation and amortization of $ 0.7 million and $ 10.1 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended September 30, 2016 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $9.3 million which was offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $2.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.6 million, and $0.3 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by investing activities . Our investing activities provided $ 1.1 million and $ 2.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, internal software development costs, and acquisitions. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $3.3 million , partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $2.3 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2016 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $2.2 million. 33 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , our financing activities used cash of $ 0.9 million and $ 1.2 million , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , we utilized $1.1 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs, which was partially offset by cash of $0.2 million provided from the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we utilized $1.3 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs, partially offset by proceeds of $0.2 million provided from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2017 , we had an aggregate of $25.3 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $25.3 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $4.9 million due in fiscal 2018; $5.4 million due in fiscal 2019; $4.7 million due in fiscal 2020; $3.3 million due in fiscal 2021; $3.1 million due in fiscal 2022; and $3.9 million due thereafter.